East London para cyclist Tim Stones, guided by Old Selbornian Andrew Liddle, has been selected to the provisional South African para cycling squad to prepare for three major international races in 2021. Stones, who works as a  senior sub editor at Daily Dispatch, is a classified B3 (partially sighted) para cyclist, and is also deaf. He has previously competed at the Deaf Olympics (in the marathon), and is the past president and team manager of the South African Deaf Rugby Association. Stones and Liddle, who in February won two gold medals at the South African para cycling national championships, are currently training hard ahead of the 20 December deadline, when the final national para cycling team will be announced. After this year's SA national championships, the pair were selected to represent South Africa at the UCI para cycling world cup and world championships, in Belgium, in May and June. The Covid-19 pandemic put the breaks on their international aspirations, but failed to diminish their desire to realise their dream. After a frustrating few months during the hard lockdown, there was much excitement for the duo when they were finally able to saddle up on their tandem bike, and hit the roads again. “While I come from a long distance running background, there is a unique sense of adventure and adrenaline every time Andrew and I ride together. As a person with dual sensory impairment, Andrew is my eyes and ears when we ride, keeping me safe, but also enabling me to pursue a sport that fuels a desire for speed and adventure, while also keeping alive a hope to have the honour of representing my country as a sportsman,” said Stones. Should Stones and Liddle make the cut for the final South African team in December, they will be on course to compete at the International Para-cycling Classics-Ronde in Vlaanderen Brugge Odenaarde in Belgium on April 30, 2021; the UCI Para- Cycling Road World Cup in Ostend, Belgium from May 6-9 ; and the UCI Para-Cycling Road World Championships in Cascais, Portugal from June 9-13 . All para cyclists (and guides) are self funded. Stones and Liddle are thus also appealing to anyone who may be interested in helping with funding or sponsorship to contact Stones at timstones1@hotmail.com. DispatchLIVE