Makana mayor Mzukisi Mpahlwa and municipal manager Moppo Mene may face jail time after the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) on Monday dismissed their petition for leave to appeal a high court judgment finding them in contempt of court. In a scathing judgment in early March, Acting high court judge Mickie Mfenyana sentenced Mene and Mpahlwa to six months’ imprisonment for contempt of court for consistently failing to heed a 2015 judgment ordering them to improve the catastrophic municipal landfill site situated just outside Makhanda. She said the sentence would be wholly suspended provided that within 30 working days of her judgment they met each and every requirement imposed on them by the 2015 judgment. If they failed to do so, she said they would have to personally come to court to explain why they should not go directly to jail. The two men forestalled the consequences of her judgment by seeking leave to appeal. Mfenyana refused leave to appeal and Mpahlwa and Mene then petitioned the SCA.But on Monday the SCA dismissed the petition, saying there were “no reasonable prospects of success” in an appeal and “there was no compelling reason why an appeal should be heard”. The 2015 high court judgment had required the municipality to properly manage the municipal landfill site in line with the municipality’s own permit conditions and other statutory and environmental requirements. Mfenyana found in March that civil society organisation Makana Unity League (MUL) had shown in great detail, confirmed by photographs, that the landfill site perimeter fence remained collapsed, access control and waste screening mechanisms were non-existent, the rubbish was not covered daily as required and there were persistent fires on the dump. Dozens of people, donkeys and dogs were also photographed picking their way through the rubbish unhindered. She found Mene and Mpahlwa had acted willfully and in bad faith and had “deliberately defied the order.” She said both men had been fully aware of the condition of the site, the recurrent fire and the health risk it poses to the residents of Makhanda. DispatchLIVE