About 100 high school pupils from Duncan Village and members of a non-profit organisation took to the streets on Wednesday afternoon and marched to the  post office. The march was organised by local NPO Masivuke Development Community to raise awareness in the fight against  gender-based violence. Other issues raised  include human rights violations and how to mitigate the effects of HIV/Aids and TB through social intervention. “Masivuke Community Development works with  key populations of disadvantaged communities. It aims to sensitise the community  on LGBTQIA+ rights and gender based violence against women and children,” project manager, Phumeza Kwababa said. Kwababa highlighted some tragic incidents that affected the LGBTQIA+ in  Duncan Village. “Duncan Village has had five murders of LGBTQIA+ residents in the past five years. Recently a 14-year-old boy was raped by his neighbour, an elderly man.  There are many cases where those who were affected are scared to speak out. So we have come together as a community to fight this brutality and sensitise our community”, she said. Prince Garishi said they wanted to end the stigma  attached to homosexuals. “Our aim for this march is to raise awareness in the community about different sexual orientations; we want to end the catcalling and swearing that we have to endure on a daily basis. The purpose of this march is  vital for this community. We are also human, and we expect to be treated equally,” he said. Marching down the main road and Ziphunzana informal settlement, the young people held their placards high and chanted songs. Limpho Nonjwango, 17, said young people gather on Tuesdays  to discuss issues. They named their meeting, Safe Place. “We wanted to participate in this march, because young girls are victims of GBV. We are not safe in our own community. “At our meetings, we make sure  everyone is comfortable in sharing whatever it is they are going through. It can be difficult to share things with our parents; that’s why this group was started,” Nonjwango said. DispatchLIVE