First having his left leg amputated below the knee and later also losing his right leg, East London resident Mark Colin  has been unable to walk for the past two years.But the 60-year-old was  in good spirits on Tuesday after receiving a specialised wheelchair for amputees.Thanks to funds raised at the SPAR Daily Dispatch Fun Run in September 2019, Colin is now free to roam around and is excited to use his new gift of mobility. “I am the happiest man. This specialised wheelchair allows me to go on rough terrain and move around easily. It’s made such a big difference in my life,” said Colin.“I first had to have my left leg amputated below the knee, but I had a prosthesis and could still walk. Then my right leg had to be amputated above the knee and I couldn’t  move without a wheelchair. For two years I’ve been stuck in my room because my previous wheelchair didn’t allow me to move around much.”In 2019 the SPAR Daily Dispatch Fun Run managed to raise R30,000 which was donated to the Sweethearts Foundation, an organisation that seeks to provide wheelchairs throughout the country to those who would not otherwise be able afford one.Colin is the second beneficiary of these funds, with 17-year-old Litha Soldati having received her specialised wheelchair in February.Daily Dispatch marketing manager Jennilee Peremore-Oliver said a portion of the funds would also soon be used to assist a third beneficiary.“Litha Soldati was one of the recipients who has received her wheelchair already, but there was still funding available so we were able to help Mark. We still have some funding left which will go towards a specialised wheelchair for a young girl in Peddie.” Despite having to cancel the 2020 edition of the SPAR Daily Dispatch Fun Run, Peremore-Oliver said it was wonderful to still be able to assist those in need of wheelchairs this year and was eager to continue this tradition in 2021.“We are really grateful that we could spread the funding to help three individuals.“Both our East London and Mthatha runs are cancelled this year due to Covid-19, but we’re hoping we can host it next year,” said Peremore-Oliver.Yvonne Pearce, a Sweethearts Foundation representative from the Eastern Cape branch, said the partnership with the SPAR Daily Dispatch Fun Run was a huge help for the foundation. “The average wheelchair costs about R5,000, but when it comes to very specialised wheelchairs they can cost  more than R20,000. So to receive this help every year from the Daily Dispatch and SPAR is a big plus,” said Pearce.“It really helps and often makes it possible for us to give specialised wheelchairs to people we would otherwise not be able to assist.”SPAR Eastern Cape purchasing manager Alan Stapleton said it was wonderful to see how small contributions could make a huge difference. “It so humbling to see how SPAR’s involvement in the Daily Dispatch summer Fun Run can play a role in hopefully changing  a life,”​ said Stapleton. DispatchLIVE