The Eastern Cape’s Bush Bucks and Spear of the Nation FC have joined six other clubs from around the country in taking legal action against Safa’s decision for an early closure to the 2019-2020 ABC Motsepe League. The Eastern Cape version of the league was still very much up for grabs, ardwith Pondo Chiefs top of the log on 47 points from 22 matches, only one point ahead of Spear of the Nation, who had a game in hand, and Matta Milan, in third on 45 points from 22. Chiefs and Matta still had eight games to play and Spears had nine. But Safa, because of time lost during the Covid-19 lockdown, took the decision to halt the league as it stood, effectively awarding Pondo Chiefs the title. This meant the teams on top of the log in March, like Eastern Cape champions Pondo Chiefs, would go through to the national playoffs to be played from November 9 to 14 at the Vaal University of Technology. This outraged Spear of the Nation and Matta Milan. Now, Spears, based in Bizana, and East London’s Bush Bucks have joined Super Eagles from the Free State, Summerfield Dynamos (KZN), Norway Parks Magic, First National Rangers St Agnes, Santos and Ikapa FC (all Western Cape) in opposing Safa’s decision. A statement from the clubs concerned read: “In response to this decision, eight clubs, taking a principled stance, appointed attorneys to challenge this decision. “They contend that this decision was taken in a manner that was procedurally unfair,  unreasonable and irrational. “A request by the clubs’ attorneys for a copy of the minutes of the NEC meeting, copies of the attendance register for the meeting, the voting register, what empowering provision in the Safa constitution and/or regulations and/or rules of competition were used in reaching the decision, and what the reason/s was/were for reaching the decision, remains unanswered. “SAFA’s curt response has been that the meeting was ‘held virtually’.” The clubs said the lack of “a response to these enquiries and provision of the documents” they requested meant the decision was “not lawfully taken”. “In addition, in the absence of the aforesaid documents, the decisions were not rationally taken and/or were unreasonable. “The clubs further contend that the upshot of Safa’s Uniform Rules, read with the League Regulations, is that for the league to be concluded and the winner determined in relation to the respective streams, the teams participating therein must have been allowed to play their opponents over two rounds on a home and away basis. “What the rules and regulations contemplate is that the winners of the league is determined on the basis of a sporting outcome over the period of 30 matches.” It further read: “Safa has a duty to football to ensure that the winners of the league are determined on the basis of a sporting outcome that is lawful, rational, reasonable and procedurally fair.” The clubs have now referred the matter to arbitration and will be heard by a senior advocate appointed by the acting CEO of Safa, Tebogo Motlanthe, in consultation with all parties, on Tuesday. Motlanthe said on Monday that Safa stood by the decision but would have to accept the decision of the independent arbitrator. “They [the eight clubs] are well within their right to take action against Safa because it is within our constitution and our judiciary is independent. “Let’s hear what the arbitrator has to say after hearing their case and what their legal team has prepared [against the Safa decision]. “Of course we stand by the [Safa] decision taken [to call off the remainder of the 2019/20 ABC Motsepe League season] because they are the highest decision-making body in Safa; they made a decision so it will stand [until proven otherwise],” said Motlanthe. DispatchLIVE 