A 14-year-old pupil,  allegedly whipped with a sjambok by a teacher during her exams, says she's still traumatised and in pain, and her livid mother wants the teacher  punished. Speaking to DispatchLIVE on Sunday, the mother, who cannot be named to protect the identity of her  daughter, said it  was terrible to see her child in such pain. “She was even saying she wanted to quit school,” said the emotional mother, who is from Thakazi village in Centane. The victim is  in Grade 10 at Dondashe high school and the whipping allegedly came after she failed to attend school on a previous Saturday. “When she came home that day, she could not sit properly. I asked what had happened and I even thought she was raped because she and other pupils walk a long distance to school. When she told she was assaulted by a teacher I was  shocked. My child was attacked mercilessly,” said the mother. “She was beaten so badly there is   swelling. She has green marks on her body. She is in pain as we speak. She was writing on that day and she was called while writing her exams and was beaten by that teacher.” The mother  pointed out that corporal punishment had been abolished. “Now she is scared to go to school. She is my hope as an uneducated person. I was scared to open a case because I know nothing about the law, but I want that teacher to account for this.” “My child was threatened that she will not write the remaining papers. She is disturbed now. She feels she did something wrong for telling me and fears that teacher.” Education MEC Fundile Gade said an investigation had been launched and the need for action was urgent. “I find this act barbaric. I need the established team to clarify whether the whistle-blower is from the school, first. The next step is to establish if the culprit is a departmental employee or a school governing body (SGB) employee. Should we find that the perpetrator is from the school, a harsh punishment will be imposed,”  he said. Gade said an immediate recommendation would be imposed in line with the Educator’s Act and the SASA of 1996. “There is a precautionary suspension, if the culprits are our employees. Even if he or she is not, that individual does not belong to our class, to be with our children. All this must happen urgently to save other learners  from this shocking exercise.” The statement from Gade  revealed three other schools in Centane  were apparently still using corporal punishment  on pupils. Gade instructed a team to visit the schools and “investigate these serious allegations and  report back to the senior leadership of the department with recommendations should anyone be found guilty of breaking the South African School's Act (SASA) of 1996”. “I call upon all schools and SGBs, including educators, to distance themselves and refrain from administering corporal punishment. Anyone found guilty of such will be dismissed and blacklisted, never  to practice in SA again,” said Gade. DispatchLIVE