The Border sporting fraternity is mourning the death on Monday of Walter Sisulu University rugby coach Sipho Metula, 43, after a long illness. The man who  took WSU rugby to new heights was also a good cricket player in his day. He  represented the Border B senior team and all the Border age-group teams before that, playing in a then very strong U19 team with cricket greats such as Makhaya Ntini and Mark Boucher in 1994. According to his  brother Bongani, Sipho  was a family  man who loved his family, especially his mother Tenjiswa and his daughters, Sinesipo Simane,12,  and Siphokuhle Qalo, 11. Bongani said the family was proud of Metula and all his achievements on the sports field. “We are saddened by his passing but he left us so proud,”  Bongani said. Metula’s love for his family was matched by his love for sports, and it was as a rugby coach that he made his name, turning the WSU All Blacks into a team to be reckoned with. So it was to be expected  that his WSU community was devastated by the news of his death, including the institution’s executive director of student affairs, Zoleka Dotwana, who is in charge of sports at the university. “I am beyond devastated, and I know all involved with WSU sports will be devastated wherever they are,”  said Dotwana before breaking down in tears. “He was such a committed staff member, and played such a massive role in putting WSU on the map,” she said. WSU acting coach Akhona Mgijima said Metula was the “godfather of WSU rugby”. “He pioneered and engineered the WSU All Blacks from the day he started about 18 years ago. I coached with him for 10 years and what you see now, he built. “Under him WSU was in the top five in the Border league since 2011,”  Mgijima said. He said  Metula was more than a coach to the young men under him, going as far as feeding them from his own pocket when they were hungry before practices, especially those who came from far away. “He would drive as far as Port Elizabeth to fetch players who could not get to WSU. He lived and breathed rugby and sacrificed everything for WSU rugby,”  Mgijima said. But it was not only WSU that gained from the newfound success at the institution, as many of the university’s graduates have gone on to play for the Border senior team. “He contributed vastly to the development of rugby in the Border area. If you look around Border rugby, every top team has a Sipho Metula product in their team. “In spite of his small build he had a presence about him, he spoke with authority, and when he spoke people listened. He was well respected,”  Mgijima said. Metula, who according to Mgijima had a level 3 coaching qualification, did pretty well for someone who did not play top level rugby but rather excelled on the cricket field. Raymond Booi, coaching manager at Border Cricket and one of Metula’s first cricket coaches, said Metula started out in mini-cricket before playing Border U12 and becoming the “first black child” to make the Border U13 team. The left-arm medium-fast bowler also played for the U15 team before advancing to the U18 Border team alongside Boucher, Justin Kemp and Ntini, who would all go on to star for the Proteas. He will be buried in Middledrift on Wednesday. He leaves behind his mother, daughters and siblings.