Confirmation of the sale of Bidvest Wits to Tshakhuma Tsha Madzivhandila (TTM) has left Gavin Hunt fuming as it has emerged that the club will not be retaining his services. TTM completed the takeover of Wits, which includes a name change, on Saturday and will relocate to Venda next season to play at the Thohoyandou Stadium in Limpopo. But what shocked many, including Hunt,  was when they said the coach was too expensive for TTM and he would have to find employment elsewhere. “I’m not good. I don’t want to say too much; let’s talk another day,” an angry Hunt told reporters. “Right now I don’t want to talk too much about it, you know. “[I am] very upset about it.” What made Hunt angrier is  that TTM did not enter  into any negotiations with the four-time Premier Soccer League (PSL) champion before deciding  they would not retain him. “Anyway I don’t want to get involved,” Hunt continued. The Clever Boys, who were supposed to celebrate 100 years of existence in the PSL in 2021,  are  sixth in the league table with 38 points from 21 games. “We must finish well and we must put this team in Africa — that’s the most important thing,” Hunt said. TTM chair Masala Mulaudzi sold their GladAfrica Championship status to the owner of Mabotwane Security and Baphalaborwa Construction, Simon Malatji, for R13m in May. Mulaudzi then used that money to top up the amount to buy Wits. With uncertainty among the players,  TTM CEO Sello Chokoe said they  would not stand in  the way of those who wanted  to leave. “We have not talked too much to the players about the sale, because we thought Wits  would talk to them,” Chokoe said. “Most of them, I see in the media, are saying they won’t go to Limpopo. “But the most important thing is we won’t  stand in anyone’s way if they are not willing to relocate to the province; if they got another offer. “Obviously we will talk to the team and make sure that we do what is in the best interest of the players.” Chokoe added that they were already looking for a new coach to replace Hunt next season. — SowetanLIVE