A traffic officer at the Zwelitsha provincial traffic department has tested positive for Covid-19, resulting in 24 of his colleagues being  sent home to self-quarantine and the office being closed to the public. Traffic officers earlier called DispatchLIVE on Monday morning to say their station had not been closed despite one of them  testing positive. “We are reporting this to the media as we are concerned about this situation and how it is going to affect our health. We care about our colleagues and families, and we cannot allow  this. “The department should act  and close the station,”  an officer, who asked not to be named," said. Another officer said they  were worried because their colleague had been in contact with others in the department across the province. “It may be that our member got infected while doing his duties on our national and regional roads. We are calling for this station to be deep-cleaned and closed.” Transport spokesperson Khuselwa Rantjie  said the department was informed on Sunday  that a traffic officer at Zwelitsha had  tested positive to Covid-19. “The officer went on leave at the end of May and was not at work when symptoms started showing. The department has, however, deemed it necessary to release about 24 officers who might have been exposed to the colleague to self-isolate at home,”  Rantjie said. She said the station had been closed as the department was following the necessary protocols. The transport department was also engaging the department of health on testing those who had come into contact with the officer, she said. “We wish our officer well as he recuperates at home. The department appreciates the work the traffic law-enforcement officers are doing in assisting the country to manage the spread of coronavirus.” Traffic officers from the Amathole district and Buffalo City Metro were tested in May, according to Rantjie. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.