In a shock move, prominent Eastern Cape businessmen Gary Markson and Kenny Govender have quit as members of the Isuzu Southern Kings consortium of business owners. Their resignation could not have come at a worse time for the embattled franchise, which has  endured problems on and off the field in recent months. Govender is a director of Govcomm, a company that provides communications systems support to the Airbus Group in Africa and the Middle East, as well as to SAAB defence systems. Markson is executive provincial head of Standard Bank in the Eastern Cape and an entrepreneur with business interests in Port Elizabeth. “As an international businessman residing in Port Elizabeth, I saw the need for my initial involvement in the Kings franchise,” Govender said. “However, I have varied business interests and I did not feel that I could add any further time to the Kings’ business. “After lengthy discussions with the board in early March 2020, and scenario planning with the management team, we agreed and understood that I am unable to commit the time and effort required in participating in the franchise. “On that note, I tendered my resignation as a board member and relinquished my shareholding accordingly. “I continue to support and wave the Kings rugby flag and wish them well during these difficult times.” On his decision to quit the Kings, Markson said: “That’s correct. I am no longer a member of the Kings consortium.” Reporters tried contacting Kings chair Loyiso Dotwana for comment on the resignations via phone calls and WhatsApp messages. But after saying earlier in the day that he was in a meeting and would return the call later, Dotwana did not respond. A financial cashflow problem resulted in late payment of Kings salaries in April and caused concern among playing staff. Though they did not pay salaries on the scheduled day of April 25, they managed to do so 10 days later after a R6m bailout from the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro. The franchise paid May salaries on time, but fears have again arisen about their ability to meet salary obligations at the end of June. Insiders say the rugby players’ union, MyPlayers, has written to mother body SA Rugby expressing concerns about player welfare relating to salaries at the Kings. After the original delay in payment, Dotwana said: “In these unprecedented and challenging times, I plan to lead the Kings board in a wide-ranging strategic review and planning process regarding a best possible way forward for the future commercial sustainability of the franchise on the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent global economic meltdown.” It is believed the Kings’ monthly wage bill is in excess of R3m. SA Rugby CEO Jurie Roux said the Kings were having teething problems in their private equity partnership. “The Kings having the first black equity partner within rugby was a pretty big coup for us,” he said. “Are they having some teething problems? Absolutely. “They need to sort their house out for themselves. “If they are unable to sort that out in a way that is acceptable to everybody, I’m pretty sure they will be knocking on our doors asking for assistance in smoothing over that process. “There’s this common misconception that we can actually just jump in at any time into any union. “[But] our unions are completely autonomous; in actual fact they own us. “We all work for the unions. “Within our constitution there’s a section that determines when we can get into that union and that normally can only happen when they’ve transgressed any of those clauses — effectively when they are bankrupt, can’t pay bills, not paying Sars or paying players. “That’s the only time that we can intervene and that’s not been necessary with the Kings at the moment.”