The MotoGP season stalled by the novel coronavirus pandemic will begin with back-to-back races at the Jerez circuit in Spain on July 19 and 26, the sport's governing body said on Thursday. Five circuits will host double-headers and there will be a total of seven races in Spain as part of the revised 13-round European calendar for the 2020 season. Eight races have been cancelled so far this season including the Qatar, Dutch, German, Finnish, British, Australian, Japanese and Italian rounds. The third round will take place in the Czech Republic on August 9 before two races in Austria on August 16 and 23. Misano will then host two rounds in September. MotoGP said a minimum of 12 rounds would be held in the championship. The total number of races could increase to 17 with four outside Europe between November 22 and December 13. The only long-haul races yet to be cancelled due to the pandemic are those in Thailand, Malaysia, the US (Texas) and Argentina. Those events and their dates will be confirmed before July 31, MotoGP added. Moto2 and Moto3 were able to start their season in Qatar in March because they were already there for testing but MotoGP was unable to race due to quarantine restrictions. The updated schedule is as follows: July 19: Spanish Grand Prix July 26: Grand Prix of Andalusia August 9: Czech Grand Prix August 16: Austrian Grand Prix August 23: Styria Grand Prix September 13: San Marino Grand Prix September 20: Emilia Romagna Grand Prix September 27: Catalan Grand Prix October 11: French Grand Prix October 18: Aragon Grand Prix October 25: Teruel Grand Prix October 8: European Grand Prix November 5: Valencia Grand Prix The MotoGP season stalled by the novel coronavirus pandemic will begin with back-to-back races at the Jerez circuit in Spain on July 19 and 26, the sport's governing body said on Thursday. Five circuits will host double-headers and there will be a total of seven races in Spain as part of the revised 13-round European calendar for the 2020 season. Eight races have been cancelled so far this season including the Qatar, Dutch, German, Finnish, British, Australian, Japanese and Italian rounds. The third round will take place in the Czech Republic on August 9 before two races in Austria on August 16 and 23. Misano will then host two rounds in September. MotoGP said a minimum of 12 rounds would be held in the championship. The total number of races could increase to 17 with four outside Europe between November 22 and December 13. T he only long-haul races yet to be cancelled due to the pandemic are those in Thailand, Malaysia, the US (Texas) and Argentina. Those events and their dates will be confirmed before July 31, MotoGP added. Moto2 and Moto3 were able to start their season in Qatar in March because they were already there for testing but MotoGP was unable to race due to quarantine restrictions. The updated schedule is as follows: July 19: Spanish Grand Prix July 26: Grand Prix of Andalusia August 9: Czech Grand Prix August 16: Austrian Grand Prix August 23: Styria Grand Prix September 13: San Marino Grand Prix September 20: Emilia Romagna Grand Prix September 27: Catalan Grand Prix October 11: French Grand Prix October 18: Aragon Grand Prix October 25: Teruel Grand Prix October 8: European Grand Prix November 5: Valencia Grand Prix