South African cricket fans can look forward to the return of their favourite game when the brand new Solidarity Cup is contested at SuperSport Park later this month. The June 27 event was unveiled in a virtual media launch held on Wednesday and will feature a 36-over match between three teams captained by world class cricketers AB de Villiers, Kagiso Rabada and Quinton de Kock as they go head to head in this  new  format. Featuring the AB’s Eagles, KG’s Kingfishers and Quinny’s Kites, the eight-man teams feature some of the country’s finest players in addition to some exciting young talents. The match will see all three teams bat for one 12 over innings, split in two halves of six overs facing both opponents in the field during that period. At the fall of the seventh wicket, the last man stands. However, he will only be allowed to score in even numbers, to add further excitement to the match. Each bowling team has the use of one new ball for their full 12 overs which is used for both opponents. A maximum of three overs per bowler is allowed. The team with the highest aggregate total will be declared the winner, with gold, silver and bronze medals in the offing as well. Eagles captain De Villiers, synonymous with his free flowing style of play, was relishing the opportunity. “As players we have no idea what to expect but with that comes a lot of excitement and as a player I am very excited to take to the field and try this new format,” he said. “What stands out for me is the last man stands because as a youngster I always dreamed of the opportunity of being the last man standing and winning the game for your team, so I am really looking forward to that,” he said. Kingfishers captain Rabada said the concept was sure to keep spectators and players alike glued to their seats. “That’s a solid team,” the right-arm quick said when asked about his side. “I think we are a team who are just going to enjoy ourselves on and off the field.” Swashbuckling left handed opener De Kock said there were some explosive players in his lineup and will be looking to have a lot of fun in the new format. “There is a lot to think about and take in, being a new format, but as said previously, its all new to us, so we will determine what needs to be done once we are actually out there and ready to go,” he said. The teams are: KG’s Kingfishers: Kagiso Rabada (capt), Faf du Plessis, Chris Morris, Tabraiz Shamsi, Reeza Hendricks, Janneman Malan, Heinrich Klaasen, Glenton Stuurman Quinny’s Kites: Quinton de Kock (capt), David Miller, Temba Bavuma, Anrich Nortje, Dwayne Pretorius, Beuran Hendricks, JJ Smuts, Lutho Sipamla AB’s Eagles: AB de Villiers (capt), Aiden Markram, Lungi Ngidi, Andile Phehlukwayo, Rassie van der Dussen, Junior Dala, Kyle Verreynne, Sisanda Magala 