More than 1,600 commercial farmers in the Eastern Cape are set to benefit from R65m in Covid-19 agriculture relief funding. The farmers come from all six provincial districts. Rural development and agrarian reform MEC Nomakhosazana Meth said the funding was disbursed in the form of vouchers valued at R50,000 each. “For all the beneficiaries, the voucher is kept at R50,000. “It is important to remind [farmers] that this is a grant fund and as government we have opted for a voucher system and we are in partnership with distributors and manufactures of the inputs,” Meth said. To date, the department has issued  2,612 vouchers for 875 successful applicants. Meth said the outstanding vouchers for the remaining 747 applicants would be received in the coming weeks, as they were generated from Pretoria. “This number is made of at least two or three vouchers per successful applicant as a voucher has been issued for each item like feed, medication, fertiliser and chemicals, depending on the commodity each applicant is approved for,” she said. Department spokesman Ayongezwa Lungisa said: "These farmers will get vouchers of their needs and they will take them to the identified agricultural service providers where they can use them to get what they want. These vouchers will cut the middleman as farmers will be able to buy directly from the shops instead of someone buying on behalf of the department for the farmers. The service provider will then claim from the department with the bill of quantities." The MEC said the relief fund’s main objective was to support the completion of the “current production cycle in an effort to ensure adequate food production and supplies”. “Though issues of young people are integrated in all the department activities, we have upped the gear on focusing on the ‘next generation of farmers’ and the drive to commercialise young farmers in agriculture.” She said the province had received thousands of applications. “The province received 10,608 applications and approved 1,622 farmers with the breakdown of 1,148 men, 554 women and 217 youth. “Prioritised commodities were poultry, vegetables, fruits, livestock and winter field crops. “The total amount for the approved applicants is R65,694,654,” said Meth. Meth said many applications were not approved as they did not meet the criteria. “Having noted that most applications did not meet the minimum requirements as outlined, minister Thoko Didiza progressively opened an opportunity for such farmers to be reconsidered as phase two  with a relaxed criterion to accommodate these farmers, despite the fact that they were not successful due to non-compliance.” The criteria used include: A number of years in farming; Proof of access to land; Annual turnover from agricultural activities of at least R20,000 a year; A number of jobs created by the enterprise; Proof of access to markets. “Considering the second opportunity opened by the minister, the province has made another submission to the National Committee to reconsider 3,167 more applications, totalling  R66,684,500 for approval from applications coming from six provincial districts.” In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.