Gauteng premier David Makhura has appointed Dr Thembi Mokgethi as MEC for social development in the province. The appointment follows the death of Thuliswa Nkabinde-Khawe in November last year. Since then, education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has been acting in the position. “Thuliswa Nkabinde-Khawe's untimely passing inflicted incalculable pain in the hearts of millions of people in our province - women, people with disabilities, older persons and children - whom she served with utmost dedication and distinction,” Makhura said in a statement. “I would like to convey my gratitude to MEC Lesufi for a sterling job done in steering the department of social development through a challenging time of responding to Covid-19 during the past three months. "Today I am very pleased to announce I have decided to appoint Dr Nomathemba “Thembi” Emily Mokgethi as the new MEC for social development. Dr  Mokgethi is a seasoned public official with extensive experience in government.” Mokgethi holds an MA in nursing science and a doctorate in literature and philosophy from the University of South Africa. The new MEC has been serving in the Gauteng legislature as an MPL and chairperson of co-operative governance & traditional affairs, and human settlement. She also serves on the Scopa and standing committee of chair of chairs. “One of the new MEC’s urgent tasks will be to lead the battle against gender-based violence. We must end gender-based violence and the killing of children now. I am confident  Dr Mokgethi will bring a great deal of energy and experience to Team Gauteng, and will ensure the department of social development becomes an agent for social transformation and sustainable development," Makhura said. The appointment has been welcomed by the ANC in the province. “The provincial executive committee reiterates its previously stated position that ANC comrades deployed in any capacity, whether it be in the executive or elsewhere, need to remain steadfastly focused on implementing the ANC manifesto in line with the five-year manifesto implementation plan adopted by the PEC lekgotla in June 2019,” the party said in a statement. “We have no doubt comrade Dr Mokgethi will hit the ground running in her new deployment. We believe comrade Panyaza Lesufi consolidated the solid foundation laid by the late MEC during his acting deployment in the department.”