Andile Mkosi was a steady worker who represented his municipal colleagues as a shop steward, a family man who was father to one child, and involved in his community as the chairman of the governing body of a local school. Last weekend, he became the first King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality employee to die from Covid-19, succumbing to the disease a day after he was admitted to hospital. Mkosi, 44, a Samwu member, was an access control officer with 10 years experience. His older brother, Jiyana Mkosi, confirmed  he had died  at around 4am on Sunday, just hours after he was admitted at Mthatha General Hospital on Saturday after complaining of difficulties in breathing. “The whole thing is just unbelievable,”  Jiyana said. “We are distraught as family. We are busy with funeral arrangements as we speak.” Jiyana said his brother’s wife had informed the family that she had received a text  from the doctor who had attended to him saying he had died from the virus. DispatchLIVE discovered that Mkosi was among 152 KSD employees recently tested after a staffer tested positive. The two labour unions at KSD, Samwu and Imatu, have  instructed their members not to report for duty until they are all screened and tested for the virus and they have their results. Samwu chair in KSD Lwazi Madyibi confirmed tests of all employees were being conducted. He said employees were anxious and three other municipal employees had tested positive for Covid-19. “The situation is bad. Work has come to a standstill and we have shut down operations until everyone gets their test results back.” Madyibi described Mkosi as one of the most reliable people he had worked with, someone who did not need to be policed to do his job. Imatu acting chair Inam Mkile said all municipal employees were scared. KSD spokesperson Sonwabo Mampoza confirmed Mkosi’s death  on Tuesday and that he was believed to have died from the virus. The municipal offices were closed for decontamination, he added. He was unable to provide the exact number of staff diagnosed with Covid-19, saying the last time he checked it was about  three people. He said Mkosi’s death was a huge loss to the municipality as he was one of the longest-serving members in public safety, which was one of the most critical departments in the municipality. “We are still in shock,” Mampoza  said. Teachers at Bambanani JSS in Slovo Park in Mthatha west, where Mkosi served as school governing body chair, said they were scared to go inside the school building as Mkosi had  attended several meetings before the initially scheduled reopening of schools on Monday this week. Mkosi reportedly attended meetings on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday but excused himself on Thursday, saying he felt unwell. The principal, Lubabalo Bhango, said he had nothing to say as communication with the media was done by officials from the department of education. Provincial education spokesperson Loyiso Pulumani promised to comment  but had not done so by print deadline on Tuesday. DispatchLIVE was unable to confirm the details about Mkosi's death with health authorities as  health MEC Sindiswa Gomba’s spokesperson, Judy Ngoloyi, had not responded to questions  by print deadline. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here. 