 Phiko Ngxekana is one of King Sabata Dalindyebo (KSD) municipality's poorer residents who marched on Thursday against what they said are rip-off  prices for electricity, which they have nicknamed “Mtiza”. He and others said the Covid-19 pandemic had ravaged incomes and pushed them to breaking point. Braving the cold, 50 supporters of KSD Concerned Residents went to KSD's  offices in town to hand over a petition containing 40,000  signatures from disgruntled Mthatha citizens demanding to buy electricity  directly from bulk supplier Eskom. Alternatively, they demand KSD cuts the price by half. The  unemployed father, 59, says his family has to  spend R500 a month on  KSD electricity. But it runs out before the month end and the  Ngxekanas have to pay a further  R240 every month on gas and  R150 on paraffin, or more. “We can't even cook with this electricity and have to use a gas stove,” he told the Dispatch. “It is killing us. If you buy for R50, it doesn't even last three days. My children cannot even watch television at night because we have to save it.” Nozibele Khulakade, 69, an unemployed mother of two from Mandela Park informal settlement, is upset that the poor must pay the same price as those in affluent suburbs. “They [municipal bosses] used to give us R50 free electricity  every month but that stopped last year. Now I have to take what little I make from doing odd jobs to buy electricity, on top of everything else.” KSDCR chair Phikolomzi Adonis said Mthatha residents were not getting value for money from KSD. He said the situation was worsened by the Covid-19 pandemic and  lockdown as many were losing their jobs and sources of income. “The petition is our plea to the municipality to find it in their hearts to listen to our plight and do something about it.” But KSD mayoral committee member and councillor Zukisa Gana, who accepted the petition on behalf of mayor Nyaniso Nelani, said they had met with the group on July 21 where most of their demands had been discussed. When Gana was asked how it was possible that residents  in the same municipal ward could buy cheaper power from Eskom while others were forced to buy from KSD, he  said some areas were zoned as ratepaying areas while others,  deemed  peri-urban and rural, were not ratepayers. Eastern Cape Chamber of Business president Vuyisile Ntlabati   said  most of the population of KSD was very poor. “The municipality can impose other levies and taxation to make money. They must think out of the box. People cannot afford  this much on power. With Covid-19, every cent now counts.” EFF  OR Tambo  regional chair Mzukisi Fukula called the price of KSD electricity  illogical and unjust.