Touch and go — that is how Thozama Hopa from Mdantsane described what it was like starting his business seven years ago. But he had a dream and with the help of a friend in 2013 started Zito Aluminium and Glass in his back yard. The business came about because of a demand for aluminium at the time but, importantly, to also bridge the gap of unskilled youth. “We later registered the business to also be compliant, and operated through word of mouth without any form of marketing or branding. “After some time, we  decided to register for NHBRC because we wanted to use our own accredited installers. “After having done so we later registered with  the SA Glass and Glazing Association [Sagga], for our glass to have a stamp of approval. We never stopped pursuing avenues that had an ability to assist.” Hopa, 31, has been flying the township’s flag high, taking part in many national business development competitions. “Zito Aluminium and Glass was a national wild card finalist on Pitch and Polish, an annual competition held by Raizcorp Business Development. “We presented green efficiency products and how aluminium and glass can reduce the cost of electricity due to its insulation and low E-glass.” In 2016, they were called by Raizcorp,  with IBM SA, to do a presentation on digital libraries. “In 2018 we were in the finals of the SA Breweries Kickstart Boost competition as the only East London/Mdantsane company. Zito Aluminium is also an accredited NHBRC builder, SA Glazing Institute member, AAAMSA member, Proudly SA member. All our workers are trained at Wispeco,” said Hopa. Like many other companies, Zito Aluminium and Glass has not been immune to the challenges caused by Covid-19. They had to use the only resources they had as the business relief fund was not promising. “We have a system in place which deducts a certain percentage of all goods bought as insurance, and that decision has helped us to at least be able to open our doors”, he said. Their plan after the pandemic is to drastically shift focus on implementing the fourth industrial revolution as they have seen an increase in online requests and purchases during the lockdown. “We  have three employees, with the hope of adding more in the future. We plan to train women, people  with hearing disabilities and inmates who are eligible for parole. We also plan to increase our visibility on social media as well as through our website.” Hopa said they had also explored the idea of an aluminium business incubation in Mdantsane as a way for the private sector and government to include black aluminium fabricators in large scale projects. This in turn would help not one, but a number of businesses to grow as Mdantsane and East London had a number of fabricators who needed support. Hopa’s advice to those who want to start their own business is simple: it is not fun and games but in the end, it is worth it. “ One must be prepared for hardships that will take you out of your comfort zone. “We need more women taking centre stage in businesses. They need to be equipped with tools that will assist them to compete. It’s not easy but it’s worth it,” Hopa said.