Four DA leaders in the Eastern Cape, in a push to disrupt the status quo, have tossed their names into the leadership hat. The opposition party will elect a new provincial executive at its virtual congress on August 29. While provincial leader Nqaba Bhanga and provincial chair Andrew Whitfield will be re-elected unopposed, delegates will elect two deputy  leaders and three deputy chairs. Season politician Bobby Stevenson and Buffalo City Metro caucus leader Terence Fritz want to serve another term as deputy provincial leaders while MP Chantel King, who lost by eight votes to Stevenson and eight to Fritz in 2017, hopes it will be second time lucky for her. BCM DA chief whip Dharmesh Dhaya, who announced his candidacy for the interim federal chair position in 2019 before withdrawing it, also wants to be one of Bhanga's deputies. For the deputy provincial chair positions, incumbents Yusuf Cassim and Marshall von Buchenroder both want another term while MPL Vicky Knoetze and DA Alfred Nzo chair Wonga Potwana want to occupy the third post. Outgoing third deputy chair Kobus Botha is not contesting. With August being Women’s Month, King believes that might just be the lucky charm she needs. “I feel we need more women representation. We need a robust team that will take the bull by its horns and move forward. Yes, we have been moving forward as the DA, but I feel we have to work harder in the rural areas. “In most rural areas we don't see the voice of a woman coming forward. We have incredible women in rural areas but we just need to give them a seat at the table or create a table for them. “I think it's time a woman was given that space in leadership in the DA, especially since I'm standing for deputy leader. It doesn't get any closer to the leader. But it is just to have our voices heard,” she said. Potwana said having grown the party in the rural district of Alfred Nzo, he was ready for more responsibility at provincial level.He has helped grow the DA east of the Kei river since joining the party in 2011. “As much as we stabilise our consistent voters, which is your white voters,  we need to recruit more black voters because there is no truth to the notion that the DA is a white party. “I want to help grow the party further in rural areas. My aim is to add value to the executive as much as we stabilise,” he said. Knoetze is banking on her track record as a former councillor and now as an MPL to convince the majority of delegates to place their faith in her. “I have been involved in the party for a very long time and I believe it is time to see more innovative female leadership at the top in the Eastern Cape. “I believe I can lead with integrity, vision and courage,” she said. Dhaya could not be reached for comment as his phone went straight to voicemail at the time of writing. DA provincial spokesperson Mlindi Nhanha said: “The decision by our members to re-elect the incumbent provincial leader and provincial chair is not only an endorsement of their leadership, but also a confirmation that the party is in good hands in the Eastern Cape.” The DA was meant to elect new leaders in Graaf-Reinett in March but had to shelve the congress because of the coronavirus outbreak.