Southern Kings director of rugby and head coach Robbi Kempson is optimistic about the club’s future under Saru administration.  Addressing journalists via Zoom, Kempson said the exit of the Greatest Rugby Company in the Whole Wide World (GRC) ownership was regrettable but the stability that came with being under Saru would benefit the club, on and off the field.  “The exit of the GRC was unfortunate, but now we are back in the hands of Saru,” he said.  “It’s been difficult times for everyone, but the support we have received from Saru has been tremendous.”  Regarding their participation in the PRO14, Kempson said the Kings and Cheetahs had been assured of their places in the European competition.  In July, Saru confirmed that eight premium rugby teams in the country, including the Kings, would participate in a double-round Currie Cup.  However, Kempson says the competition is expected to  start in September.  “Early September is definitely achievable but end of August is a little ambitious. I think the final decision is only made towards the end of August from Saru anyway.” he said.  Despite struggling in the PRO14, where they have won just once and were placed bottom when the competition was halted due to the coronavirus, Kempson is confident his side will hold their own against the top rugby sides in the country.  His objective will be using the competition to continue the union’s recent trend of giving youngsters the chance to showcase their abilities on the big stage. “We have a very young squad, so the important thing for us is to create the opportunity.”  He says the experience gained in the challenging PRO14 will bode well for the team. “I think we will surprise a few people. I think the Cheetahs will as well. The strength of the PRO14, which we have been bleeding a lot of our youngsters in, will help us cause an upset or two,” he said. A successful campaign would be important for the growth of his young charges, as well as for the young coach, former Border Bulldogs and Springbok Sevens stalwart Vuyo Zangqa. Sadly, the Kings will be without former Border Bulldogs player Masixole Banda, who has  signed with Griquas. Banda is just one of a crop of players whose contracts expired, including Schalk Ferreira. Financial restrictions have had adverse consequences in the transfer market for the club. “You have seen this with the likes of Schalk Ferreira, who is still training without a contract at the moment. But in the case of Banda, he was offered a two-year deal by the Griquas and for his safety and security he took it. This is professional rugby.” Kempson paid a glowing tribute to Banda, who made more than 50 appearances for the EP Kings and Southern Kings combined. “Banda has been a great servant of Eastern Cape rugby and I’m pretty sure he will serve the Griquas equally well. I am obviously sad to see him go but that just shows you where we are as a union in terms of our contracting situation,” he said. 