Three members of an Mthatha worship team have released a gospel single which has become one of the top selling songs on Google Play. The song, Singamcimi umoya oyingcwele, which loosely translates as “we must not quench the holy spirit”,  was released on August 3.  Only a few weeks ago, Zintle Mhawu, Vuyolwethu Mathumbu and Njabulo Cwele  were   members of the Mthatha-based Last Hour Harvest Ministries (LHHM) with dreams of making it big in the music business. Enter church pastor Thalita Willie, who secretly approached Aviwe Gqomfa, the road manager and business partner of Eastern Cape gospel star Betusile Mcinga, to record the trio. Gqomfa, 29, who wrote and produced Singamcimi umoya oyingcwele,  told the Dispatch the song was recorded in the first week of July at a studio owned by art teacher Soso Mdingi. “I have written songs for other high-profile artists before,” he said. “But I haven't written in a while. I needed some form of inspiration for me to be able to write something.” Gqomfa, who is originally  from Seymour,  said the single by the LHHM worship team members had become the second-best selling song on Google Play — only three days after it was released. “When I checked on Thursday, it was at number 4. It is rare for a new song to sell that fast,” he said. He said the success of the song was testimony to  Mhawu, Mathumbu and Cwele's singing talents. Willie, who is the group's executive producer, said they owed their success  to God. The song also helped put the church on the map. “We have a lot of talent here but we don't just want them to sing  in church. They must be able to realise their full potential. We want to see our children become gospel stars in their own right.” Cwele, 25, who hails from KwaZulu-Natal, said even though music was his biggest passion, he never saw himself becoming a gospel artist. The fourth-year Walter Sisulu University (WSU) student relocated to Mthatha in 2015 to study but ended up joining the church. Now that he has tasted success, he hopes to follow in the footsteps of the late Sifiso Ncwane, whom he described as his favourite artist and source of inspiration. “We were shocked by the reaction our song has received as we are basically unknown in the music business,” he said. Mathumbu, 29, a fellow WSU student, said she always fancied herself as a gospel singer. Music, she said, was the only medium she knew  which allowed her to express herself and preach the gospel of God. She, too, was  surprised at how  their song had been received. Mhawu 29, who works in Cape Town, said she always wanted to be a recording artist. She is also part of a gospel group in Cape Town. “I never really saw this coming. I am still trying to make sense of it all,” she said.