After  being retrenched 10 years ago,  businessman Nathanael “Nate” Padayachee did not lose hope. “I could not find employment. I sold my only car and started buying and selling cars,” he said. Soon he could open his own car dealership, Nate’s Car Sales, in Amalinda, East London. “It was not easy, but I did not stop. I found myself in a position where I needed to support my family as my parents had also lost their business. We were all sitting at home with no income at all.” He said he had been blessed to find work again, and never forgot that. His colleagues have become family, and “I still support my parents to this day”. “I now have one of the biggest car dealerships in the city, with over 200 vehicles to choose from. And we will continue to grow. It is a lot of hard work, but all worth it.” Padayachee never forgets what it was like to be without, and makes a point of sharing his blessings. “I made sure  from the time I started Nate’s Car Sales that I gave back to our community. It was something I always loved, and I have such amazing support from our Nate’s Car Sales family.” The dealership has been responsible for  many community projects  to help those in need. It has held toy drives, winter drives, book drives and more. “We currently have a pet food drive as well as a used sports equipment drive. We are always trying to assist the community. “By giving back, we have received blessings which were completely unexpected. My hope is to move people’s hearts  to assist those in need. If everyone can just lift someone up, we would live in a powerful and blessed world.” The businessman shared some encouraging words on how people could become successful. “Don’t let your situation control you — you control the situation, and never give up. God has a plan. There will always be hurdles, that’s life. Take control and strive, no matter what your situation is. Always do good, and you will prosper. Whatever you do, do it with the best of intentions,”  Padayachee said. DispatchLIVE