 Blood Psalms, the much anticipated African mythology series which is to be shot in parts of the Eastern Cape, will be aired on international platforms. This was announced by telecommunications giant MultiChoice Group this week. The series will be broadcast in 2021 on MultiChoice’s Showmax and on CANAL+, a French film and television studio and distributor. Showmax is available in countries like Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Indonesia,  Monaco, the Netherlands and Spain. The filming of Blood Psalms, which boasts of a star-studded cast, has begun in earnest in the Eastern Cape. The 10-part series is set 11,000 years ago and will be shot in Graaff-Reinet’s Valley of Desolation, Gwadana and Coffee Bay. Other locations include Gauteng and the North West province. Blood Psalms chronicles the rise to power of a fierce teenage princess who battles a world-ending prophecy to navigate her people through ancient curses, long-standing tribal vendettas and the wrath of the gods. Dynamic filmmaking duo and creators of the series, Layla Swart and Jahmil Qubeka, of Yellow Bone Entertainment, said the production would bring a “much needed” boost to the economic recovery of the set locations in the province. “Manifesting this epic series during the time of Covid-19 has made the work that much more critical and urgent,” said Swart, who is the producer. “It is a spiritual undertaking which has forced us to be cautious, protective and even more responsible about how we produce content in a time when content is sorely needed and when jobs are dearly in demand,” she said. Qubeka said the series, which had been dubbed “the African Game of Thrones”, offered a glimpse into pre-colonial times in Africa. “For me, it is about the power of the image, and what the image does to the psyche of humanity. “Here we are offering a glimpse into a version of history that empowers the African child, and thus provides a solid contribution to their sense of identity,” Qubeka said. Qubeka, who is known for his gritty and thought-provoking work as a filmmaker, said viewers would get to see Africa portrayed like never before. “Africa is considered to be the oldest inhabited territory on earth, yet it has the youngest recorded history. “The continent is filled with ancient ruins and structures like the pyramids of Egypt and Great Zimbabwe, which suggests that there’s a story to tell from an African perspective. “Blood Psalms looks at life and what happened before our time. “It explores the vast mythological African history,” said Qubeka. Qubeka, who is a native of Mdantsane, draws particular interest from using locations around the Eastern Cape for his productions. His most recent films, the multiple South African Film and Television Award-winning Knuckle City and Valedictory, were all shot in the Eastern Cape. Blood Psalms will be no different. Qubeka said the series was “a very big production and will incorporate a number of people to ensure the success of the final product”. The series features more than 50 South African actors and actresses. Among the cast are Faniswa Yisa, Hamilton Dlamini, Hlubi Mboya, Sello Maake Ka Ncube, Siv Ngesi, Thando Thabete, Warren Masemola, Zikhona Sodlaka and Zolisa Xalavu. Swart said all the actors selected for the series “bring their own unique ability to authentically translate this magical epic onto screen”. “The goal, for us, is to ensure that the golden thread of Africa’s stunning history really shines. “The story of Blood Psalms not only entertains, but also contributes to the preservation of African culture and languages as authentically told by Africans, to be enjoyed by the world,” Swart said.