A  dispute between firefighters and Ngqushwa municipality has been blamed for a 71-year-old grandmother losing everything in a fire this week. Asathaba Payi managed to rescue her grandmother, Shumikazi Payi, from the fire that destroyed their  home in Chisirha village on Monday. Shumikazi was still inside the house but Payi, 29, braved the flames to pull her out. The pensioner was rushed to the nearest clinic to be treated for smoke inhalation. According to the family, their home could have been saved had firefighters not been at loggerheads with the municipality over disinfection of the fire station. It is understood seven firefighters recently tested positive for Covid-19. The family said the firefighters were on a slow-go to protest how the municipality had handled the pandemic. Payi said while some neighbours called the fire department, others tried to douse the flames with buckets of water. Community activist Mandilakhe Makhabane said  firefighters were called repeatedly. “We kept calling and they kept saying they were on their way but then it became evident that they would not be coming. “Then they told us they  were protesting against their employer. If the firefighters had come some of the family’s belongings would have been saved,”  Makhabane said. Payi said  she “quickly grabbed” her grandmother from one of the home’s three rooms when she saw the fire was out of control. “It is disappointing that the firefighters could not come,” she said. The family lost everything in the fire. Athini Ngxumza, of the Mtapo Centre, a service advocacy body in Ngqushwa,  said neighbours were collecting money to assist the family. Ngxumza said she understood the firefighters’ grievances because their lives were always at risk. “They are using an old truck. The  pipes are torn from a fire they put out last month. It is just disappointing that they could not come to assist,”  Ngxumza said. Amathole district municipality (ADM) spokesperson Noni Vuso said four firefighters who tested positive for Covid-19 on July 11  were sent to self-isolate. “The fire station commander is manning the station while firefighters are due back after the disinfection process,” Noni said.