The department of human settlements, water & sanitation does not deny that its minister, Lindiwe Sisulu, has appointed a company to investigate the financial affairs of Amatola Water, nor that a department driver brought investigators to the Eastern Cape. But department spokesperson Yonela Diko said they were concerned by the constant leaking of information from their department to the media,  and this could lead to criminal charges being laid against the staff member and journalist involved. On Saturday, the Dispatch reported that Sisulu’s personal bodyguard Fikile Raboroko was assigned to drive private investigators in a hired Volvo SUV to East London in April, allegedly at her insistence, according to a confidential document seen by the Dispatch. But Diko said: “We are concerned by the constant leaking of confidential and sensitive information from the department to a specific journalist and it smirks [sic] of an illicit relationship between such a journalist and that particular staff member(s).” He confirmed that  Raboroko was a driver for the department and had driven many people who had business with the department and were in need of shuttle services. “It is offensive and crass to even think that a minister would be involved in transport arrangements.” On Friday, Raboroko confirmed to the Dispatch he was Sisulu’s bodyguard and had driven to East London in a Volvo. Diko said they had already suspended a staff member for the leaks. “But we will be opening an investigation between such a staff member and this particular journalist to ascertain the nature of their relationship whose singular intention is to undermine the work and functionality of the state. “If we have found out that there is a collusive relationship between the journalist and the suspended staff member or any other staff member of the department or its entities, we are going to lay criminal charges.” He confirmed Sisulu had appointed Dr Len Konar of Outsourced Risk and Compliance Assessment (Orca) to investigate both Amatola Water and Lepelle Northern Water (Limpopo) boards, saying she was acting according to section 45(2) of the Water Services Act, which states that a minister “can appoint any person to investigate the affairs and financial position of the Water Board”. Diko could not confirm if Orca was owed about R300,000 for the work. “The administrative part of his work, which includes his compensation, is outside the minister’s purview. Dr Konar has long done work for the department and has never been unpaid.” He said Konar had a contract signed by the director-general as per the appointment by the minister to perform  auditing and financial services at the water boards as mandated by the minister. “The problem with leaks is that they are always limited, they are without context, and they leave those who receive them wondering. The conversation may have concluded, may have gone for much longer, and ultimately, there may well be nothing to it. There is no conflict or problem with Dr Konar and the department. “Dr Konar is an outstanding professional who has a lot of avenues to deal with any grievances he might have and if he was unsatisfied, we would know about it from his lawyers or himself,” Diko said.