Eastern Province Cricket president Donovan May is one of four nominees short-listed for the vacant position of CSA president. Current CSA board member May, who is in his second stint as head of EP, will be gunning for the position at next month's annual meeting following the early resignation of president Chris Nenzani. A leaked list of nominees has May nominated alongside KwaZulu-Natal Cricket Union head Ben Dladla, Northern Cricket Union president Tebogo Siko and Beresford Williams, who currently holds the acting president role. August has not been kind to the already embattled national body, first with the dismissal of COO Naasei Appiah, followed 24 hours later by the resignations of Nenzani and then CEO Dr Jacques Faul later the same day Speaking as a potential candidate for the presidency on Monday, May, who serves as a non-independent director on the CSA board, confirmed his nomination, saying it was something he had always had in mind. “It is something I have been considering for some time. I have been requested by some of the stakeholders to get involved in leadership at the organisation, be it in a presidency or vice-presidency role. “So I was requested to put my hand up. I thought about it, I’ve spoken to my friends, family and stakeholders, who have encouraged me that I can do it,” May said. Asked what was needed in order to turn around the fortunes of the beleaguered organisation, May said, “The first thing I think is to restore the confidence with the sponsors, the media and all stakeholders. “Also, I think just going back to the basics. Get the right people involved and get everyone to row the same boat.” “That’s what I did at EP Cricket, I got the board and the CEO to row in the same direction as me and not pull things to the side. “Also, I think another key element is to ensure that the credibility of CSA will be enhanced, it will take some time, but it can be done,” he said. Apart from his board position within CSA which he took in 2019, May has also been on the CSA members council since 2013. The organisation will hold its annual general meeting on September 5. All the nominees: President: Ben Dladla, Donovan May, Tebogo Siko, Beresford Williams Non-independent directors (two vacancies): Ben Dladla, John Mogodi, Craig Nel, Simphiwe Ndzundzu, Anne Vilas, Xolani Vonya Independent directors (three vacancies): Dheven Dharmalingam, Eugenia Kula-Ameyaw, Vuyokazi Memani-Sedile Lead independent director: Eugenia Kula-Ameyaw — HeraldLIVE