Chippa United defender Diamond Thopola says the players are willing to fight all the way to get a  win against Baroka on Saturday as their battle for survival in the Absa Premiership soccer competition continues. However, they are faced with a daunting fixture against the basement battlers at Bidvest Wits Stadium (6pm). Chippa started their attempted road to survival on a bad note with a loss to Cape Town City when the season resumed recently. But they then grabbed a point against Highlands Park on Tuesday in a goalless draw to lift their survival hopes. Former Orlando Pirates player Thopola, 30, said Tuesday’s result was a huge motivational boost for the team. “We didn’t start off well against Cape Town City, where we lost 1-0,” Thopola said. “We conceded a very soft goal, which I would say was due to a lack of concentration. “It was our first game after so long of not playing; it has not been easy but we are trying our best. “We improved our performance in the second half and I was satisfied with the work rate that the guys put in even though we lost the game. “Saturday’s encounter against Baroka is not going to be an easy one. Both teams are fighting for their lives. “We saw the game between Baroka and Orlando Pirates, where Baroka gave them a run for their money, so we know what they are capable of. “Saturday’s fixture is not going to be easy but I believe that the boys are ready and will fight for the team because we are definitely looking for a win.” Thopola said getting three points could be a real game-changer for Chippa in their quest to remain in the national top flight. The Port Elizabeth-based side are 12th on the log, with 27 points from 26 matches. Only four points separate Chippa from the bottom-placed Black Leopards and Polokwane City, while Baroka are just two points ahead of Polokwane and Leopards. So Saturday’s  match could develop into a bloodbath as both sides will be fighting for those valuable three points. “I believe it will be a very interesting encounter against Baroka, because, of course, they are also not safe on the log,” Thopola said. “So we need the win by all means and I believe the guys will be ready to fight for the team. “The game against Highlands was a morale-booster for us. Getting a draw was not easy but the boys came to the party, they fought. “We’ll be expected to do the same thing tonight. Every point or points [that we get] at this stage will not come easy and if you get them it will be  crucial for the team. “Both teams are not in a good position on the log and both teams are going to come out guns blazing. “I think the team at the end of the day who want it the most will get the points.”