The Eastern Cape education department together with  media company Keith Ngesi Media has rolled out a virtual learning programme for matric pupils across the province. Khawuleza News is a digital streaming platform that will allow pupils to access learning material, department news updates and participate in online classes via live-streaming. Acting director of the department's e-Learning entity, Lutho Kota-Mgwali, said the communication platform was not only a response to the Covid-19 outbreak but served as a long-time learning plan that would cater to other school grades in the future. Tutorials featured on Khawuleza News will be recorded and converted to audio clips that will play on community radio stations including Kouga FM, Ngqushwa FM, Unitra Community Radio, Kumkani FM, Mdantsane FM and championing partner Keith Ngesi Radio (KNR). This week Khawuleza News will broadcast maths and maths literacy classes and move onto other subjects in the following week. The lessons will be played on  radio stations this week from 6pm. “We are working closely with lesson planners and subject advisers to develop these lessons and formulate a schedule and time table. Pupils will get the experience of being in class through the virtual learning. Educators will conduct these lessons as if they're in front of a class. These lessons will also be stored on the departments website where pupils can access them,” said Kota-Mgwali. She said the department hoped the digital learning initiative would take the Eastern Cape matric pass rate to greater heights. She said Khawuleza News was on track with the fourth industrial revolution mandate. “We are really embracing this multimedia platform. It will make communication easier and we encourage everyone to participate and embrace the digital space. This will allow a quick dissemination of information to many people and we hope to expand this platform further,” said Kota-Mgwali. Kota-Mgwali encouraged pupils who did not have have immediate access to the internet to pay close attention to their community radio stations from 6pm. Keith Ngesi, of Keith Ngesi Media, said virtual lessons would commence on KNR from Tuesday between 10am and 12pm daily. “We will later disseminate the lessons to other radio stations with the assumption that learners will be home at 6pm and to listen and revise well. This programme is the first of its kind and we hope it will add value to our Grade 12s. We are spreading a message that says this time at home is not a holiday only, it's a precautionary measure to keep learners at home,” said Ngesi. “Khawuleza News's main objective is to give image to the content of news generated by the provincial government. It is a multi-platform medium which will include social media and print platforms in the near future. We will digitise all media statements and share them on WhatsApp for a wider reach. It's all about simplification of communication,” Ngesi said. The Khawuleza News streaming platform is available on Google Play Store and Apple iStore. Users need to download the free VLC video app, search the Khawuleza News networking stream to access the virtual classes.