East London police are searching for a missing Cambridge High school girl who has not been seen since Saturday. Siyabulela Jecolinah Gqadu, 17, a Grade 10 pupil,  failed to return home at  the weekend, leaving her parents in a state of  desperation. Her father, Mbuso Gqadu said:  “Her mother looks fine but deep down she is hurting and very worried. Since Saturday I have been driving around looking for her but without any luck.” Gqadu fears her disappearance  could have been fuelled by the fact that he had taken her cellphone away from her on Friday afternoon. He said they had decided to do this so  that she could focus on her studies. “Like any other parent we take phones from them so that they can focus on their school work and other chores. She was understanding and we had no issues with that. Now and again she would  ask for her phone and I would tell her the reason she is not getting it back,” he said. On Saturday morning her parents left their Dorchester home for town, leaving her alone at home. “We took about three hours in town and when we came home, the house was locked. We looked around for her inside  but she was not home. We were worried as she has never done  this before.” On Sunday the family continued with the search. “We phoned our relatives and put a notice  on social media to see if anyone might have seen her but have had  no luck.” There were responses from people who said they saw her in a popular  Mdantsane spot, Ekoneni in NU1, but the family could  could not find any useful information there. “Her friends from church and school have no idea where she is and they have not seen her over the past few  days." “We appeal to the community to assist us as we do not know what is happening to her. We ask people to come forward and tell us if they have seen her, and to please alert the police and call the family." She was last seen wearing a white top and a denim skirt, although her green floral dress was not at home. Her parents can be contacted at 084-405-9399 and 081-230-8541. Police had not responded to requests for a comment by print deadline.