 A drug pressure group has called for the lockdown ban on alcohol and cigarette sales to be reversed for the sake of addicts. "Especially in the case of alcohol, many of those with substance-use disorders cannot simply stop using drugs," the SA Drug Policy Initiative said a statement on Tuesday. "If they do, they risk developing a range of symptoms including psychosis, seizures and ultimately death." Motorists will be let off the hook for now for driving with expired driving or learner’s licences and car licence discs. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula on Monday issued a gazette extending the validity of the above, driving permits and registration of cars. While the World Health Organisation (WHO) has strongly advised wearing a mask and gloves in public if you suspect you’re infected or someone you are caring for is, many people are probably doing it wrong. Here is how to correctly use masks and gloves during the pandemic. Three more residents of a Durban old-age home have tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the total to five. Dudley Fortune of the Bill Buchanan Association for the Aged in Morningside told TimesLIVE on Tuesday that four of the five residents in isolation had the virus. The person who took video footage of a white woman “teaching” black staff how to wash their hands to prevent the spread of Covid-19 at a housing complex in Johannesburg says the intention was not to vilify the woman, but ensure workers are treated well. The footage of the woman, only known as “Shelley” went viral over the weekend after it was shared on Twitter by comedian Lesego Tlhabi. Social media went into chaos mode on Monday after the first official case of Covid-19 was reported in the Gauteng township of Alexandra. It was all too much for some citizens, who flooded social media with memes and messages in reaction to the news. Former Republic of Congo president Jacques Joaquim Yhombi Opango died in France on Monday of Covid-19, his family told AFP. He was 81. Yhombi Opango, who led Congo-Brazzaville from 1977 until he was toppled in 1979, died at a Paris hospital of Covid-19, his son Jean-Jacques said. South African clubs are yet to ask their players to take a pay cut as a result of the potential financial damage being done by the coronavirus lockdown, but the South African Football Players Union are preparing for the discussion. Players across the world, including Lionel Messi at Barcelona and Cristiano Ronaldo at Juventus, have given up portions of their salaries to help reduce the costs at their respective clubs, where there is no longer any income as a result of the suspension of league and cup competition matches. I’ve run out of snacks I bought before the lockdown in anticipation of boredom and just needing to eat something and pile up some calories. I’m also out of my weekly fruits and vegetables but tempted as I am to head to my nearest Pick n Pay, the fear of potentially finding myself in the crowd was enough to get me to stay. Read more. What it means for SA. A 86-year-old man from Bloemfontein in the Free State has been confirmed as the third person to die from Covid-19 in SA. The Free State department of health said his 81-year-old wife had also been admitted to hospital. Read more. Two Tanzanian men have been rescued off shore of Zinkwazi beach, on the KwaZulu-Natal North Coast, after being thrown from a Chinese vessel which was leaving the Durban harbour. Read more. As taxis failed to operate in Atteridgeville, many gogos and oupas on Monday were forced to walk to various social grant pay points. Read more. In an 18-minute address to the nation, Ramaphosa was critical of those who weren’t taking the national lockdown seriously by ignoring regulations and trying to find loopholes. “Some people may think this disease is something that doesn't concern them, and that it will never affect them - that it is something they only read about in newspapers or social media or see reports about on television. But it is very real. And it poses a great danger to every one of us and to our society as well,” he said. “It infects the rich and the poor, the young and the old, black and white, those who live in the cities and those who live in the rural areas. Let us not make the mistake of thinking that this is somebody else's problem.” In the public interest none of our coronavirus news coverage will be behind our paywall, it is available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here: www.dispatchLIVE.co.za/buy/.