East London Airport is closing in on having processed one million passengers over the past year, having experienced growth of 14% in passenger numbers from January 2019 to the end of January this year. By the end of January, the airport had facilitated just under 940,000 arriving and departing passengers. Airport spokesperson Senzeni Ndebele said in the same 12-month period the number of flights to and from East London Airport, measured as Air Traffic Movements (ATMs), grew by 13% from 10,373 to 11,722. “These figures are especially pleasing for us at a time when there is considerable disruption in the air travel market,” said Ndebele. He said East London Airport remained an important and viable regional hub for both business and holiday travel and she hoped that this performance “encouraged all role players in the area to intensify the work of attracting more visitors”. While some airlines have announced plans to cut flights or reduce frequencies, Ndebele was not in a position  to speculate on the potential impact. Since the beginning of March, SAA has not been flying to several  international and local destinations, among them East London. SAA cancelled some flights from Johannesburg to Abidjan (via Accra), Entebbe, Guangzhou, Hong Kong, Luanda, Munich, Ndola, and Sao Paulo because it was undergoing business rescue. “Should routes be cancelled by some airlines, we will need to see the response from other airlines to understand the actual impact on travel to the city,” Ndebele said. However, SA Airlink has already announced a mid-morning flight between Johannesburg and East London starting in the next two weeks. The flights with six business and 93 economy class seats will depart daily from Johannesburg at 10.10am, arriving in East London at 11.45am. The return flight will depart East London at 12.15pm arriving in Johannesburg at 13h45. “We will continue to contribute to the efforts of the province, the city and local business and tourism bodies to attract more visitors to East London. Our collaborative efforts are especially important to convince airlines that the market for flights to and from the city remains robust and attractive,” Ndebele said.