A shortage of protective equipment for medical staff continued to cause delays at an East London day hospital on Tuesday. Several people told DispatchLIVE that they arrived at Duncan Village hospital as early as 6am to beat the queues. But it was not until after 1pm that patients were allowed to go inside, and even then only in groups. For some, it was the second day of trying to get medical assistance. Spokesperson for health MEC Sindiswa Gomba,  Judy Ngoloyi, confirmed the hospital was running out of protective wear for the staff and admitted that the hospital had some delays. Thembela Nini from Duncan Village was at the hospital on Monday and again on Tuesday. “I would have had to return tomorrow if I did not get my results today [Tuesday]. This was the date that I was given to come back for them,” Nini said. He arrived at the hospital just before 7am and waited with more than 100 people, some sick, others carrying babies. “We were told that the staff was worried about their health as they did not have their work gear. There was a lack of communication.” Khanyiswa Nongqayi, who had taken her 10-month-old daughter  to the hospital for immunisation, said having a large group of people in one place was a risk. “We had to wait because if one person left, the nurses would shout at you. “I tried going to the chemist, but I was told to go to the clinic instead.” Ntombi Bhawushana also endured a long wait to have her 14-week-old baby immunised. She said the situation at the hospital was the complete opposite of the rules of the national 21-day lockdown  that people should not be crowded in one place. “We had no access to toilets and water while waiting. Normally it takes about two hours to get our children immunised but we had to wait more than that,” she said. Ngoloyi confirmed there was a delay at the hospital and that normal operations resumed at 1.30pm. “Last night [Monday] there was a shortage of [staff members’]  work gear, but they received them in the early hours of today [Tuesday]," she said. “Before attending the patients, they started by distributing them among themselves. “They told the patients that they won’t be long and wanted to make sure that every health worker has their gear. They asked for permission from the patients.” Nehawu’s national office is calling for health minister  Zwelini Mkhize to prohibit, with immediate effect, the performance of duties, including those related to Covid-19, that endanger or risk the health and safety of the union’s members. “The government has a role to play in protecting our members while we fight this virus as a country. “While our members are on the front line of fighting the virus, it is imperative that they are given all the necessary personal protective equipment and sanitisers,” the National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union said. “The safety of our members is a non-debatable matter and we will fight until the bitter end to ensure that they are protected at all material times. “Our members and workers in general have a right to life.” The union said it was shocked and  disappointed that its members, and other  workers — including doctors, nurses, cleaners and ambulance and morgue workers — were   expected to work without the necessary protective gear. 