Despite the new national minimum wages regime which took effect at the start of March, domestic workers in SA do not have much of an increase to look forward to. The prescribed minimum hourly rate for general workers went up to R20.76 from March 1, but domestic workers trail behind with an increase of only 57c per hour, bringing their hourly minimum rate of pay to R15.57. Salaries of many domestic workers have always been far from ideal and these lower than expected increases do not satisfy the demand for a living wage. With consumers reeling from a weak economy, even a modest increase may be difficult for many households. If employers are truly unable to pay more, then instead of adding one more person to the unemployment queue rather look at cutting back on hours worked, and improving other aspects of the working relationship. Over and above this, however, it is important to look at working conditions. It takes more than a good contract to create a positive work experience for domestic workers. My department's research has shown that employers also need to invest in the domestic employment relationship. Close to 1.3m domestic workers — mostly women — in more than a million households in SA contribute in an indirect yet significant way to the economy. This needs to be acknowledged and reflected in both their contractual and relational work experiences. However, these workers frequently have little control over their conditions of service, and private homes are rarely monitored for legal compliance. Not all employers obey the laws protecting domestic workers who often fear losing their jobs if they speak out on wages, hours and general working conditions. Often women continue working well beyond retirement age while claiming a social grant to cope with increasing living expenses. The relationships built with domestic workers extend far beyond legal compliance. In the formal work sector, concepts like employee wellbeing, psychological safety, and a positive work experience are important. These also need to be acknowledged in a home, which is the domestic worker’s “office”. The boundaries between employer and employee may blur as they work in a personal space. At the same time, effort can seem invisible, and the isolated nature of the environment can lead to domestic workers feeling marginalised and powerless, as well as disconnected from their families and social networks. Low pay, long hours and distance from these support networks can lead to social and emotional deficits. A strong bond between domestic worker and employer can be formed but gifts and providing financial support should not be given to solicit loyalty. The domestic worker makes a significant contribution to the family wellbeing. If her value is appreciated this will lead to relationships characterised by mutual caring, trust, commitment and a natural flow of reciprocal support. While employers will bring au pairs, tutors and caregivers into their homes and pay them for their services, the fact that domestic workers often fulfil similar duties in their routine is not sufficiently acknowledged. Ethically this value added should be considered in negotiating the contract of employment, recognised for what it is and decently remunerated. The domestic worker should also be encouraged to identify the tasks she finds more satisfying, meaningful and stimulating. Employers should provide resources to enable her to do her job effectively and ensure that equipment is maintained and updated. However, in most cases there is a language barrier. Most employers speak English or Afrikaans which are often a second or third language of many domestic workers. In turn this makes it difficult to communicate and freely discuss matters. Employers must never overlook the basics such as registering for the Unemployment Insurance Fund as any employee who works for more than 24 hours per month must be registered with the UIF. If a domestic worker has more than one employer, every employer needs to register for UIF. When an employee loses a job due to retrenchment, dismissal or when a contract expires, or is unable to work due to illness, maternity or adoption leave, they may claim from the UIF fund, so it is a valuable safety net. In addition employers must foster a positive work experience by developing a sense of worth and wellbeing, by promoting not only the contract, or transactional aspects of the job, but also through nurturing the relationship with their domestic workers. Bridget de Villiers is a lecturer  at Nelson Mandela University.