Prime Minister Boris Johnson is warning Britons in a letter to 30 million households that things will get worse before they get better, as he himself self-isolates in Downing Street to recover from the coronavirus. Britain has reported 17,089 confirmed cases of the disease and 1,019 deaths and the peak of the epidemic in the country is expected to come in a few weeks. In the letter to be delivered to homes, Johnson urges people to stick with the lockdown measures that his government has imposed to try to prevent the state National Health Service (NHS) from being overwhelmed by a surge of cases. After initially taking relatively modest steps compared with other European nations, Johnson ramped up his response to coronavirus in the past week, ordering pubs, cafes, restaurants and shops to close and making social distancing compulsory. “We know things will get worse before they get better,” Johnson writes. “At this moment of national emergency, I urge you, please, to stay at home, protect the NHS and save lives.” In his letter, he will thank all those working for the NHS, which provides free healthcare to everyone living in the UK and inspires huge respect across society. “It has been truly inspirational to see our doctors, nurses and other carers rise magnificently to the needs of the hour,” Johnson will say. “Thousands of retired doctors and nurses are returning to the NHS — and hundreds of thousands of citizens are volunteering to help the most vulnerable.” Senior minister Michael Gove said on Sunday the government is “very concerned” about the death toll. He also said the country has boosted the amount of testing for the virus. “The number of tests being carried out has hit 10,000 a day. We want to increase that to 25,000 a day.”  In the public interest, none of our coronavirus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.