A KwaZulu-Natal man who has the coronavirus says he is “feeling fine” after returning from overseas three weeks ago. The man, a dealer principal at South Coast Volkswagen and Audi South Coast, wrote a candid Facebook post on Saturday morning about the reality of his situation after speculation mounted about his condition on social media . “I just wish to make a statement to our South Coast community, family, friends colleagues and anyone I have been in contact with about the reality that I have just been confirmed as the 1st unfortunate one to have tested positve on the South Coast with COVID-19,” the man said. “I can understand the reaction and fear from many as this is an unknown and scary situation to deal with for all of us.” He said he wanted to give people some insight into his condition so that people could “understand better”. “Firstly I feel terrible for the way this is impacting so many around me - firstly my family, friends, business and work colleagues and staff and many others whom I have had contact with in the past three weeks since 29 Feb. “I travelled for a business event in Germany in mid Feb - travelled to Munich on 25 Feb and returned to SA on 29 Feb. There were very few cases reported in Germany at that time and no travel restriction in place.” He said he was scanned at the airport on his return and was found to be clear. “I have had no symptoms in the past 3 weeks and even this past week. There was no quarantine instructions for Germany at the time and still none at the start of this week, as far as I know. I have been following all the Corona news and govt. releases closely.” He only went to be tested after president Cyril Ramaphosa put out an appeal last Sunday. “One of these (requests) was a request for anyone who had traveled to any of the affected countries, now also including Europe, UK and US - since mid Feb to  get tested. I immediately went for a test on Monday 16 March. “I was only informed late yesterday Friday 20 March of the positive result.  We have been following the hygiene protocols in all our business premises since they were imposed and  informed and trained all staff. “Staff had also been sensitised prior to these measures this past week around personal hygiene protocols as result of COVID-19 outbreak world wide.” He said an immediate lockdown on his business premises had been imposed. “We have partnered with a local Doctor, well versed in these circumstances, to implement a disaster management plan and are complying with all instructions and protocols at this time and assisting in any way we can.” The man apologised to the local community for their concerns. “I assure everyone that this is not something I would intentionally put on anyone. “I believe that it was only a matter of time before this would have reached our community - I do feel terrible that it has come via me.” The patient told DispatchLIVE on Saturday he was “feeling fine” but still was not certain where he had caught the virus.