Restaurants and retail stores in East London have beefed up their health and safety protocols in response to the Covid-19 outbreak in SA. Stores including Spar, Pick n Pay and Checkers have implemented sanitisation regulations at  entrances. Customers entering  stores are offered sanitiser and wipes by workers who wear gloves. Vincent Spar manager Andrea McGlashan said the store had prepared and encouraged staff members to intensify  cleaning. “We had to do our research first and see how businesses in other countries were handling the coronavirus outbreak. We then provided our staff with factual information and started implementing safety precautions three weeks ago. Each till has cleaning agents such as sanitiser and is wiped down regularly. Our security guard at the door offers sanitiser to all customers entering the building.” “As a business operating in these times, preparing your staff is the most important thing. We encourage staff to take extra care and drink vitamins, get fresh air and  avoid touching their eyes, nose and mouth,” said McGlashan. She said necessary precautions were being taken at all entry points to the store and these were guarded to prevent the spread of the virus. Stores across the country have been hit by panic buying with items such as toilet paper and sanitiser selling out. “We haven't reached a level of hysteria yet. If that were to happen, we wouldn't allow people to clear the shelves. We will limit units purchased by each customer,” she said. Sanook restaurant manager Rudy Nel said after President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement of a national state of disaster, turnover had dropped by 40%. “As an eating establishment we have taken extra precautions in making sure that customers feel safe. We are trying to move away from cash  and are operating with cards. Our staff have taken the necessary measures and wear gloves. They sanitise and wash their hands regularly. We are making it a lifestyle to be clean. “People have stayed away, especially after the president's speech a week ago. There is also a lot of misinformation about the virus and we do our best to remain factual in the information we give the public. We use our social media platforms to communicate as much as possible and stay in touch with our customers,” said Nel. This week the  government introduced strict new measures to contain the spread of the virus. As part of the Disaster Management Act, the government announced that establishments including bars, shebeens, clubs and restaurants that sell alcohol must close at 6pm on weekdays and at 1pm on Sundays and public holidays. Nel said: “Our directors are looking into adjusting trading hours. Once a decision is made, our patrons will be informed of the new  times.” Fast food pizza outlet Debonairs issued a statement on Thursday in response to Covid-19. “We are taking additional stringent precautions and heightening strict health, hygiene and safety standards in our restaurants nationwide. Some of the additional items include: More frequent hand washing and sanitising by staff, more frequent sanitising of tables, condiments, menus and point of sale machines and more regular deep cleaning of bathrooms,” it read.