 President Cyril Ramaphosa must be commended for his swift action in declaring a national state of disaster to curb the affect of Covid-19 in SA. However, we are concerned about the grave risks   of Covid-19 for a variety of people   such as domestic workers, sex workers, female farm workers, health care workers, informal traders, shop assistants, and recycling co-operatives.. Our work should not cost us our lives. Over the past two weeks we have been inundated with calls from these class of workers who are saying: These workers make use of mass transport systems (taxis and buses) to get to and from work, areas the WHO and health department have deemed as high risk for infection. Domestic workers and health care workers work in intimate spaces with people who are at high risk of Covid-19 infection. However, due to the legacy of inequality we continue to live in, these are the very same workers who will not be paid and can’t afford to self-quarantine. We believe a successful response to Covid-19 requires unity among all who live in SA. . A unified response, however, requires government to take bold and deliberate steps to ensure the most vulnerable members of society are cared for and have their dignity and livelihoods secured. Covid-19 will exacerbate inequality among the working class of this country as they do not have the choice to “work from home” and they are subject to “no work no pay” labour conditions. Domestic and informal workers do not have access to compensation in the event that they contract Covid-19 while at work. Given that we are officially under a national state of disaster, Mr President, we call for expedited access to the Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) for domestic workers and informal workers. . In addition, we request the government to prioritise the needs of the working poor by: As the workers, who form the backbone of SA society, we have the ability to self-organise and are committed to being part of the solution to the current crisis. It’s Time to Care. — Various civic organisations and academics In the public interest none of our coronavirus news coverage will be behind our paywall, it is available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here:www.dispatchLIVE.co.za/buy/.