Anyone who intentionally exposes another person to  Covid-19, or who moves between provinces during the lockdown or contravenes other government regulations to curb the spread of the virus, can expect to pay heavy fines or be forced to appear in court without the option of a fine. The penalties are based on admission of guilt (AG) fines, or charges in court and include R10,000 for illegally convening a gathering of more than 100 people, or R2,000 for illegally leaving one’s home. Anyone who intentionally exposes another person to Covid-19 may face a charge of assault, attempted murder or murder, with the court having discretion to impose an appropriate sentence. These are among a raft of penalties published by justice officials, who have moved swiftly to meet the new list of crimes created by government regulations to curb the spread of  Covid-19  and related issues. There is no stipulated AG fine or penalty for anyone misrepresenting that they or anyone else is infected with the virus, with the courts having full discretion to impose a sentence for this offence. Taxi and bus operators – including short- and long-haul service providers - will be fined up to R10,000 for a first offence of transporting passengers outside of the regulated hours or in contravention of other measures. The courts have also stipulated fines for transport operators contravening hygiene regulations and revised carrying capacities of their vehicles during the state of disaster. Following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s declaration of a national disaster under the National Disaster Management Act on March 15, various government departments have issued regulations in specific areas aimed at curbing the transmission of the virus and dealing with related issues. Some of the regulations stipulate the penalties to be paid, but many others have been left to the courts to decide. In the Eastern Cape, including East London and Port Elizabeth, the cluster head and PE’s chief magistrate, Sibongile Raphahlelo, issued an updated penalty schedule for a range of new offences. In many cases, the contravention will result in an AG fine. In other cases, and in a second offence for the same charge, the accused will not be able to pay an AG fine but must appear in court and face a formal charge. The penalties include: Efforts to obtain a schedule of fines for the Mthatha magistrate’s court administrative division were unsuccessful. In the public interest none of our coronavirus news coverage will be behind our paywall, it is available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here: www.dispatchLIVE.co.za/buy/.