Eastern Cape filmmakers are getting a three-day masterclass on what it takes to succeed in the movie and film industry. The event kicks off on Thursday at the Miriam Makeba Centre in East London and runs until Sunday. It is focused on formulating a plan to develop film production in the province with the hope of educating local producers about the industry. The event is being organised by the Eastern Cape provincial arts and culture council (Ecpacc). Guests include film producers, the National and Film and Video Foundation, department of trade & industry as well as other film industry role players. Film development manager at Ecpacc Bonganjalo Marala said the classes address issues that affect the movie industry, specifically in this province. “The Eastern Cape Film festival is about creating a space where industry participants can come together and exchange ideas in terms of how best we can develop the sector in the province. The festival was founded five years ago and partnered up with Ecpacc.” As new technology rapidly transformed society, Marsala said local producers needed to be equipped with the right skills needed for the 4th Industrial Revolution (4IR). “Over the three days we are expecting between 100 to 200 people who will also be taught about opportunities within the 4IR. The film publication board will host classes explaining what to look out for in terms of developing content.” Mdantsane-born, award-winning producer of local film Knuckle City, Jamil Qhubeka, is one of the guests. “Jamil as well as other industry players will attend the three-day event so that filmmakers can better understand what is it they need to do to have their content recognised as of broadcasting quality,” Marsala said. Local producers still face many challenges, Marsala said. “Some producers may have great ideas but the know-how in terms of translating these ideas onto the screen requires a diversity of skills from scriptwriting and knowing how to access funding, to packaging the film and shooting scenes. We want them to know what type of content, skills, technology is required, in fact the whole value chain in the film-making process.”