The provincial government has released the names of those who died in the horrific bus accident near Centane on Monday. It is discussing a possible mass funeral service with the families. A list of the dead, released by  transport department spokesperson Unathi Binqose and health department spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo, showed the victims were aged between 88 to three. He was  the first victim to be airlifted  to Frere Hospital. Thirteen of the victims were over 60, mostly women on their way to Butterworth and Centane to get their  old age grants. “There were 15 women and nine men who died at the scene and the boy who died in hospital,” said Binqose. Since Tuesday families have been fetching the bodies of their loved ones from the Butterworth forensic pathology unit and taking them to funeral parlours. Transport MEC Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe said premier Oscar Mabuyane had instructed the provincial government  and municipalities in the area to  assist the bereaved families. “We are looking at having a mass funeral service where all the families can come together, but we cannot dictate terms to the families. If they see it working for all of them, then we will conduct it and assist. We depend on the families. This is a tragedy and it affects all of us,” said Tikana-Gxothiwe. Families were still discussing the offer on Wednesday. Binqose said the bus had been retrieved from the base of the steep hill at Nxhaxho village  and taken to Centane police station. Various disciplines had been roped in to conduct the investigation into what caused the crash. “National crash investigators are on the scene as well as road transport management officials. They are reconstructing the accident,” said Binqose. Though the bus driver, Andrew Mpendulo-Ntsomboyi, died, a case of culpable homicide has been opened at the Centane police station. Mavis Tolom-Nquma  lost three relatives — her sister Novusile Komani, her cousin Thandeka Soga, 55, and Thandeka's grandson, Masande Soga, aged three. “This is bad. I am trying to assist. I am   making plans for the body of Masande be taken to Butterworth and kept in the same parlour as his grandmother and my cousin,” said Tolom-Nquma. Speaking on behalf of the families, Phumlani Ndzotyana said they were considering allowing the government to hold a mass funeral. “We are meeting  on Thursday, March 5. All the families, government, municipalities and traditional leaders at Cebe will have a final word on this. The mass funeral service can be of great assistance to many families,” said Ndzotyana. Cebe is about 73km outside Butterworth. Andrew Mpendulo-Ntsomboyi, 61 (bus driver), Nobandla Eunice Papa, 60, Nozukile Mzayifani, 50, No-end Ntombekhaya Matroshe, 56, Mandisa Millicent Ndzotyana, 74, Timoti Mpongolo, 68, Thandeka Soga, 55, Buyiswa Mba, 55, Sihlali Kili, 59, Asavela Mba, 23, Alfred Ntetha, 84, Nomzi Patricia Hombakazi Susela, 61, Novusile Komani, age unknown, Valencia Nomsa Mabengu, 53, Alicia Bongeka Cakatha, 60, Lashawuta Gana, 88, Nosimele Nomasolina Soresi, 44, Thembisa Mtshayisi, 77, Nomelikhaya Magusheni, 47, Nolisia Mkunqwana, 69, Michael Mandita, 63, Nkosiyedwa Merriman Ntshebe, 84, Gcobani Hlanganise, 36, Novanish Nokesibone Dumezweni, 62, Masande Soga, 3. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za