Visitors to the Nelson Mandela Museum in Mthatha will have to take audio-guided or virtual tours of the facility as a result of the coronavirus outbreak in the country. . Museum communications officer  Fumanekile Wisani said the museum welcomed the announcement made by president Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday about measures needed to curb the spread of the virus. “We fully understand and appreciate the imposed travel ban on foreign nationals from coronavirus high-risk countries such as Italy, Iran, South Korea, Spain, Germany, the US, the UK and China,” he said. “The museum is also in support of measures put forward by the SA government. “The museum management has taken a resolution to prioritise the safety of its employees, visitors and all other individuals or groups of people visiting the museum to prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus.” Wisani said in complying with the government’s request to limit the number of people gathering in one place to fewer than 100, the museum would now be using an audio guide to welcome visitors at the door. He said the accompanying audio would be played at the front desk. “It explains what exhibitions people can find in each wing of the museum.” He said large groups of visitors, from schools for example, would be broken down into  groups of 10. Only one group would be allowed to go inside the museum at any given time. “We have a huge space  in front of the museum where the others can wait,” Wisani said. The museum will provide hand sanitisers to visitors  and those who use the facility’s toilets. He said these measures would be in effect for the next 30 days or until there was another announcement by  Ramaphosa. People are also urged to visit the museum’s website (https://www.nelsonmandelamuseum.org.za/visitor-experience) to take a virtual tour of the facility. The museum attracts more than 50,000 visitors every year. This includes international tourists. “But remember that tourism is seasonal. Many tourists from Europe leave their countries in winter knowing that it is summer in SA,” Wisani said. 