Legendary East London provincial runner, Mxolisi Myendeki, 73, is being mourned by thousands of runners, family and friends after he collapsed and died of a heart attack in the Buffs half marathon on Sunday. Family representative Jabu Mangena, also an Adventist Athletics Club member, said Myendeki was a dedicated father and grandfather and a devout member of the Westbank Seventh Day Adventist Church where he served as a personal ministries leader. Myendeki, the son of a pastor in the church, was born in Butterworth and moved with his father's appointments around SA. He went to schools in Cape Town, Makhanda and Nelson Mandela Bay. He matriculated at Bethel College and went on to obtained a teaching diploma from the same college. In later years he qualified as a physiotherapist, and obtained a bachelor of administration degree from Unisa. In his later years he obtained a degree in horticulture from Unisa. His first job was as a teacher at Bethel College and he went on to teach at Carltonville, Mount Coke, and then worked as a physio at Cecilia Makiwane hospital. He joined Old Mutual as an administrator and the SA National Blood Services. He worked for the Border Rural Committee and took a job at the land affairs department. His passions were the church, his family and running and he would often extol the virtues of a “healthy lifestyle”. He was a humble man and deeply involved in his church community,  always willing to help others. He sang first tenor in the church and local church choir groups. He started running at 55 and did so until the end, which he said lowered his blood pressure and weight to a healthy level. He joined the Adventist Athletics Club in 2017 and was a consistent competitor at popular half-marathons in the Eastern Cape. He died after taking part in his first Buffs marathon. Sports, recreation, arts & culture MEC Fezeka Nkomonye- Bayeni was to visit the family on Friday to pay condolences, said Mangena. He collapsed after running 6km. He is survived by his wife Thembisa and three daughters, Siyanda, Unathi, and Akona Myendeki and a granddaughter. A memorial service will be held on Saturday at the East London Seventh Day Adventist Church in Pefferville at 2pm. His funeral service is on Sunday at Hope School in Wilsonia at 8am and he will be buried at the Cambridge cemetery.