Management, staff and politicians at King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality have been urged to use teleconferences facilities and Skype to communicate outside municipal boundaries. KSD mayor Nyaniso Nelani has announced several measures in a bid to help contain the spread of Covid-19. He said business travel outside KSD’s jurisdiction was now prohibited. This applies to municipal personnel and the leadership structures. “It is also encouraged that there is use of teleconferences and Skype,” he said. “KSD has heeded a clarion call by President Cyril Ramaphosa and premier Oscar Mabuyane about the disastrous effects of the coronavirus epidemic.” Nelani said the municipality was concerned about the increasing number of people infected with the virus. KSD will establish what it terms a “coronavirus response nerve centre” to monitor and observe daily trends in relation to Covid-19. “The information will be relayed to communities,” Nelani said. The municipality will also engage with both the health department for educational material and the department of transport over steps to follow in terms of visits outside municipal boundaries. He said they wanted to urgently co-ordinate an intergovernmental relations forum (IGR) to discuss and plan on how to deal with a situation where there was an outbreak. “We want to fast-track the procurement of masks, sanitisers and gloves for general workers while we are setting up sanitising points for all employees and visitors at municipal buildings,” he said. Civic organisations, religious groups and traditional leaders will also be engaged for collaboration and support. “These are measures to reduce the spread of Covid-19 and to protect our employees and the public. “The municipality would also like to encourage everyone to empower themselves and their families with accurate, reliable information so as to prevent unnecessary fear and distortions.” Nelani said communities were requested to adhere to the safety measures and remain calm during this “trying time in our history”.