A young Eastern Cape opera singer,  stranded in Austria after weeks of coronavirus lockdown, finally touched down at East London Airport late on Friday afternoon. Bongiwe Nakani, who is from Cacadu, felt the full brunt of the pandemic when her shows at the Vienna Opera House were cancelled and she was left  stranded in the European country. After shows were cancelled, she could not afford to book a flight because she had no source of income. However, good Samaritans rallied behind Nakani to ensure a flight was booked for her after attempts to get help from government officials apparently drew  a blank. “My wife and I became perturbed about a fellow South African from the Eastern Cape who was basically stranded in a foreign country, without friends, family or help,” said Roland Williams, one of the good Samaritans. “We also found it hard to believe that all she needed was a mere R7,500 for a flight home. We compared this to the R25m that government had spent on bringing home other  South Africans [from Wuhan, China], so we didn’t think that it would be too difficult.” Williams said  the good Samaritans had approached some Eastern Cape government officials whom they knew and  brought Nakani's plight to the attention of the public via social media. “Unfortunately, we were unable to get any positive responses from the government. We were also astounded to hear that both department of international relations & co-operation [via the embassy' and DSRAC (department of sport, recreation, arts & culture] referred to mandates and budget constraints,” he said. “Here was a young lady who, off her own bat, was flying the SA flag high in one of the world’s classical music cultural centres, and we couldn’t raise a simple R7,500 for her? So we never gave up and kept on asking.” “A young Eastern Cape talent singing opera in the homeland of Mozart making us proud, was stranded and desperate to come home. “The  whole of Europe was in lockdown. She was unable to earn any money as all shows were cancelled. “She was running out of food, essentials, no hope of any income for the foreseeable future, and without family, friends and loved ones ... we had to get her home ...” Finally, Jonathan Gunthorp, a South African NGO worker based in Johanneburg, offered to pay for her flight home. But Eastern Cape provincial government spokesperson Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha vehemently denied that government had failed to assist. Sicwetsha accused Williams of failing to provide "finer details" as promised. He insisted that the government had been keen to assist. Nakani arrived at the OR Tambo International Airport, via Addis Ababa, at 1.30pm on Friday. She then flew to East London, where she arrived just before 5pm.  She had to go through virus checks. Arrangements were made for her friends to surprise her with a welcome home party when she arrived in East London.