The Dispatch has received numerous calls from readers about what the directives are for the lockdown period. Some have reported confusion over what is needed at roadblocks and when people are travelling to grocery stores and pharmacies. Here we provide some answers. Should people wear gloves and masks when driving? The most important thing to remember is that you should not touch your face, according to regulations published in the Government Gazette.  Unathi Binqose, spokesperson for Eastern Cape transport department), says masks are mainly for those who have flu-like symptoms, so as to protect others. No-one is compelled to wear gloves or masks. What times will shops be open? Which ones are allowed to open? Shops can open at their usual times but may only sell essentials such as food, medical supplies, cleaning and hygiene products, airtime and fuel, including coal and gas. Source: Government Gazette regulations Does a person need a permit to go to and from a pharmacy or shop? Where will a person get such a permit? Unathi Binqose, spokesperson for Eastern Cape transport department, says: “I would encourage people to keep slips and proof of purchase to make their journey easy. People obtaining essential goods or seeking medical attention don't need a permit. Are there specific times when people should do their shopping? Binqose says: “Shops and retailers open and close at their regular times. This also applies to garages. People can go there whenever they need to. Should people keep slips as proof of purchase to produce at roadblocks? All commuters and passengers obtaining essential goods, seeking medical attention and receiving grants are free to pass at roadblocks, provided the vehicle they are travelling in carries no more than 50% of the licensed capacity. Source: Government Gazette regulations. What do you need to have on you at all times during the lockdown? Mvusiwekhaya Sicwetsha, spokesperson for Eastern Cape premier Oscar Mabuyane, says: “Even though this is not mandatory, for purposes of identification, people should carry their ID documents. Can people be stopped at a roadblock when they say they have a doctor’s appointment? Binqose says: “People don't need a permit to go to shops, pharmacies and doctor's appointments, as they will explain to law enforcement where they are heading. How many people are allowed in a civilian car, as opposed to a taxi, bearing in mind families are in self-isolation together? Can families go to the shops together? The vehicles people are travelling in should carry no more than 50% of capacity, says transport minister Fikile Mbalula. What happens if you are caught walking outside during a lockdown? Can you be arrested? Every person is confined to his or her place of residence. You will be turned away back to your home, unless you are outside strictly for the purpose of performing an essential service, obtaining an essential item or service, collecting a social grant, or seeking emergency, life-saving, or chronic medical attention. When people do need to leave their homes they should stay as local as possible. Source: Government Gazette regulations. In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.