More than 470 international students are stranded at Eastern Cape universities' residences, higher education, science and innovation minister Blade Nzimande announced on Saturday. He said Rhodes university has 36 international students at its residence, while For Hare has 30 students and Walter Sisulu 23. The Nelson Mandela University has 382 international students who remain in its residences. The students are locked down at the universities residences after the state announced a 21-day national lockdown to flatten the curve of the fast-spreading Covid-19. The following number of students remain on residences across the country: University of Fort Hare – 30 students University of Johannesburg – 940 students University of the Western Cape - 370 students North West University – 64 students Central University of Technology – 27 students University of Pretoria – 236 students Sol Plaatje University - 0 Vaal University of Technology – 18 students Mangosuthu University of Technology – 6 students Rhodes University – 36 students Walter Sisulu University – 23 students Stellenbosch University – 971 students Cape Peninsula University - 1853 students Wits University - approximately 100 students Sefako Makgatho University – approximately 20 students University of Limpopo – 50 students University of Venda – 14 students University of the Free State – 105 students University of Cape Town – under 100 students Nelson Mandela University - 382 students University of KwaZulu-Natal – 11 students University of Zululand - 26 students Tshwane University of Technology - yet to submit Durban University of Technology - yet to submit University of Mpumalanga - 0 Nzimande said: “As we implementing measure(s) to ensure our institution(s) are not adversely affected by the virus, we are also putting measures to ensure that students who remain on our residences comply to the regulations. “As previously reported, I indicated that all students who could not return home were being accommodated in residences. This also includes instances where some universities were allowing students with exceptional circumstances to stay on campus together with international students who could not vacate.”  There were claims that 60 international students were stranded at Fort Hare. In reference to Nzimande on Saturday said 40 of those were not registered students, claims Fort Hare student leadership claim were false in a statement late on Saturday. The SRC statement read: “We would like to clarify the wrong information shared by the minister during his address (on Saturday) concerning the issue of international students at University of Fort Hare who were chased out of the University premises at 01:30am yesterday by university (guards). “He was given wrong information and we believe that this was done deliberately to mislead the public. We humbly request that the minister withdraw his comments as it is misleading and portrays us (SRC) as not being honest. The minister said students who were inhumanly evicted by university of Fort Hare management were 60 and 40 of them are unregistered. That statement by the Minister is false and misleading the public.” The SRC was adamant the students concerned were all registered. “A total of 17 of them were officially allocated in University residence then 13 were not yet officially allocated , but they were allocated temporarily in the new residence called student village , because this residence have not yet been officially opened , and the University is aware of this situation. “After they were chased out, assaulted and dehuminized in the presence of cameras and media. A temporary arrangement was then made for them to stay at East London or Lovedale heights (accomodation in town) provided by Amathole government officials and University (after university noticed that this was becoming an issue and it was attracting media) “Students opted to stay at lovedale heights ,and out of that 30 students, 8 managed to get accomodation for themselves ,only 22 were allocated. This is verified information and one can be able to get it at lovedale heights residence(Private owned building) now.” The student representative council said they were disappointed by whoever misled Nzimande. In the public interest none of our coronavirus news coverage will be behind our paywall, it is available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here: www.dispatchLIVE.co.za/buy/.