Police in the province have warned the public not to open their doors to people who claim to be conducting “free coronavirus screenings” amid fears over a robbery syndicate operating in the Eastern Cape. This comes as a voice recording — allegedly created by bogus government employees who claimed to be commissioned by the SA Reserve Bank  to seize all contaminated bank notes from households — is doing the rounds. The recording claims that after the “government” had discovered  the virus also existed on bank notes,  a door-to-door campaign would be held on Wednesday to recover cash from citizens. The voice note claims the bank notes will be destroyed and citizens  given freshly printed currency which they will get from their banks by producing a receipt issued by the “volunteers”. Provincial police spokesperson captain Khaya Thonjeni said: “The police would like to warn the public not to heed  such a call as it is a scam. There is no such initiative by the Reserve Bank and any information on the virus will be communicated through proper state and government communication channels. “Police also urge the public to stop sharing such  voice notes or recordings and any other forms of misleading information about the coronavirus as this results in the misinformation of the general public.” Meanwhile, the Netcare Health Group  has also issued a warning about a syndicate masquerading as the  its workers  who conduct “ free door-to-door coronavirus tests”. The scam is aimed at allowing people to rob unsuspecting homeowners. Netcare national spokesperson Natasha Burger said: “Netcare has been made aware that criminals are going to homes in various areas, claiming to be from Netcare or Netcare 911, and saying that they are assisting the department of health with door-to-door screening for Covid-19 (coronavirus).”  Tonjeni warned there might be more similar scams where unscrupulous people attempted to exploit the pandemic to “further their mischievous ends”. “Make sure that you double check before taking any serious action like giving out your money or opening your house to strangers under the pretext of providing services to prevent coronavirus. "Do not open your door to strangers, do not fall for such traps and make sure that you first verify any suspicious visit, message or information.”