Vodacom’s announcement that it is to drop monthly data prices by 30% across all monthly data bundles for contract and prepaid customers from April 1 has revived calls for an end to the much-maligned practice of data expiry. “How is this a ‘good deal’, Vodacom?” Lance Witten tweeted. “If you can sell data at R19, how is it only valid for a day? It’s not milk. It can’t expire.” But the network argues that bundles with shorter expiry periods have been instrumental in making data more accessible to customers with “sporadic and limited disposable income”. Vodacom’s move is a response to the release of the Competition Commission’s final report of the Data Service Market Inquiry report in December 2019, which called for MTN and Vodacom to drop their data prices. “The preliminary evidence suggests that there is scope for price reductions in the region of 30% to 50%,” the report stated. From April 1, Vodacom’s prices will drop by more than 30% across all channels. The 1GB monthly bundle, for example, will drop from R149 to R99 per GB -  a 34% price decrease, which will be followed by a further price decrease on the same date next year. “Customers who buy the lowest volumes of data, which are typically the poorest customers, will see the greatest benefit of these price decreases,” Vodacom said. The price changes will be phased in over two months from April 1 2020. But the data expiry model will remain. Here’s why, according to the network: “When a customer purchases data, he or she is not buying a physical product like milk or tomatoes. Rather, they are buying a service to access the network and use the data within the given time frame. “The reason for this is that we purchase capacity on data ‘pipes’ from other providers and this approach helps us to understand how much capacity we need.” Data capacity provided and not used “is in effect lost”, Vodacom said, and it can’t be resold. “This impacts our costs and our ability to continue to bring data costs down. If we under-provide, then the end result would be network congestion and a diminished user experience.” Whereas four years ago, bundles valid for a month were the most popular, today more than 80% of Vodacom bundles bought by pre-paid customers have hourly, daily, weekly or fortnightly validity periods. “Data bundles which have a shorter expiry period invariably cost less than bundles with a longer expiry period. As a highly efficient delivery mechanism, Just4You has vastly changed purchasing behaviour,” Vodacom said. Bundles with shorter expiry periods had been instrumental in making data more accessible to customers “who have sporadic and limited disposable income”, the network said. “This has contributed to the decline of about 50% in effective data prices over the past two years.”