The suggested three days that students should take to evacuate residences at Rhodes University, which is closing so help fight the spread of the coronavirus, may not be enough for the Director of Students Affairs (DSA) to provide assistance. This, according to to the Student Representative Council (SRC), is because the university's DSA, which is mandated to assess students’ situations on a case-by-case basis, cannot do so feasibly, considering the large volume of requests the office was likely to receive. University vice-chancellor Dr Sizwe Mabizela sent out a circular to students this week telling them to evacuate residences by Friday amid the outbreak of the deadly Covid-19 novel coronavirus. SRC secretary-general Shanti Khosa said it was “unlikely that students will receive swift responses to these urgent matters by Friday”. “The majority of students will not have budgeted for a trip back home,” she said. The SRC want students in residence be allowed to cancel bookings for next week’s meals so that they can be refunded, which will assist in covering the costs of their travel arrangements. Khosa said that students employed by the university as tutors, student assistants or sub-wardens should have their salaries paid on Friday. She said this should also apply to students on bursaries who receive monthly allowances. “There should be no submissions of academic work during this vacation period. This should be treated as any vacation, period. Students should not be expected to complete academic work in the same fashion as they would during term time. We ask that the academic programme halt as this is now officially the end of term,” said Khosa. She said there were students who did not have access to computers or an internet connection at home. “Continuing the academic programme online would significantly disadvantage the majority of our student body who face the aforementioned issues and privilege that small portion of our student body who do have access to these resources,” said Khosa. Meanwhile, the high court in Johannesburg has expressed reservations about an application brought by two law students from the University of the Witwatersrand who want to stop the evacuation of students from campus residences. The two students brought the urgent application after the institution announced on Monday that it had suspended the academic programme after one of its medical students  tested positive for Covid-19. The two law students were concerned that if students evacuated the campus, they might pose a risk to their communities, as not all of them had been tested. However, Judge Sharise Weiner said what the students were asking was against everything that president Cyril Ramaphosa said on Sunday on measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. “What the president said is that if you are not showing symptoms, you can self-quarantine and not get tested until you show symptoms. It is not up to Wits to test all students,” Weiner said. The judge said the risk of contracting coronavirus was much higher if one stayed on campus rather than self-isolating at home. The judge said the relief the two students seek was incompetent. “I am afraid to say it. This application is an overkill.” The matter continues.   