Last year, Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) was driven from its last strongholds in Syria and Iraq. And last weekend, the US signed a peace deal with the Taliban, paving the way for American troops to leave Afghanistan. It might be tempting to say that the forces of jihadism are in retreat. But on the southern fringe of the Sahara, along a vast and underpopulated semi-desert known as the Sahel, which stretches across Africa, the armies of militant Islam have massed anew and the black flag of Isil is flying again. For seven years, three international forces — one led by France, the second by the United Nations and a third drawn from the nations of the Sahel — have tried to stop the jihadist miasma. So far, they have failed. Officials across the West warn that the region had begun to eclipse the Middle East as the new front line in the war on Islamist terror. Despite frequent French air strikes, the reach of jihadist groups with allegiance to Al-Qaeda and Isil has expanded beyond their northern Mali strongholds, exporting bloodshed as they go. They have caused tribal bloodshed in central Mali, massacres in Christian churches and villages in neighbouring Burkina Faso, and taken the war into Niger. The death toll is rising alarmingly — in Burkina Faso alone, it rose more than 600% last year. Some 5,366 people were killed across the francophone Sahel — Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Chad and Mauritania — in 2019, according to the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project, a charity that monitors death tolls. Another 1,214 have died so far this year. Officials in the region warn that the crisis could soon spread even further, engulfing stable states on West Africa's Gulf of Guinea coastline. “If the crisis is not addressed and solved, the risk is that terrorism will continue expanding,” says Annadif Mohammed Saleh, the UN secretary-general's special representative to Mali. “It is not just the Sahel that risks being affected, but countries beyond it such as the Ivory Coast, Ghana, Benin and so on.” General Dag Anderson, who commands US special forces in Africa, warns that if the jihadists consolidate their hold, they could use the region to launch  attacks against the West. “We don't see a direct threat to the US or Europe right now but, if left unchecked, we know that's their desire.” The spreading conflict has already forced more than a million people to flee.  Continued bloodshed could prompt a new surge of refugees into Europe. Against this backdrop,  Britain will embark on its most significant front-line peacekeeping deployment since Bosnia in the 1990s when it sends 250 troops to join the UN mission in Mali, known as Minusma, in the coming months. Given that Minusma already has 11,620 troops in Mali, it might not sound like a significant contribution, especially with 4,500 French soldiers also operating across the Sahel. But for Lt Gen Dennis Gyllensporre, Minusma's Swedish commanding officer, the British contribution will play a vital role in turning around a mission that has widely been seen as a failure. The US has been a particularly fierce critic, arguing that UN-style peacekeeping is ill-equipped to deal with terrorism. It has demanded an alternative approach. Gyllenspore does not disagree, acknowledging that the Minusma force “is not fit for purpose”. Operating under a mandate to protect civilians and stabilise the country, it has failed to do either because it exerts only the most tenuous authority in the towns in which it is based. The jihadists roam at will and Minusma itself has become a target.  UN peacekeepers in Mali live behind layers of razor wire and barricades to protect them from jihadists and mortar attacks. Riccardo Maia, Minusma's head of office in Timbuktu, reckons the UN base in the city has been attacked 41 times since he arrived in 2015. Twelve peacekeepers were killed when jihadists overran the base in Aguelhok last year, adding to a total of 208 who have now died in Mali since Minusma first deployed there in 2013. Gyllenspore acknowledges that things need to change. And in a radical adaptation of peacekeeping norms, he plans to split his force in two. One element will play a traditional peacekeeping role, with UN troops stationed in bases near important towns, as they are today. The second, to be spearheaded by the British contingent, will carry out long-range reconnaissance patrols of up to 30 days, deep into jihadist territory, and be on standby for rapid deployment anywhere in the country. “With a manoeuvrable force, we can be more proactive in anticipating attacks, projecting force and deterring and going in where there are confrontations,” the general said. “This will be a more robust, versatile part of the force that will enable us to respond decisively. The British contribution will be the tip of the spear of our adaptation.” It will be a risky contribution. Not only will British forces operate essentially behind enemy lines, they will also travel on roads strewn with roadside bombs. French troops have been in Mali since January 2013 when they intervened to drive jihadist groups, which had hijacked a rebellion against the Malian state, out of northern areas such as Gao and Timbuktu. The jihadists regrouped, and France launched a counter-terrorism campaign but despite repeated air strikes, the militants have grown stronger, leading to fears that France is facing its own Afghanistan. At the Barkhane military base in Gao, it is easy to see why Emmanuel Macron, France's president, is so worried. Beneath the Tricolore, a simple whitewashed monument bears the names of the 41 French soldiers killed in Mali since France first intervened. Minusma is vital to France's exit strategy. If British troops turn a failing UN mission into a success, Macron's biggest foreign policy headache could be cured. And Britain could win, too. A grateful France would be a useful ally to have as the UK heads into post-Brexit trade talks with the European Union. — The Daily Telegraph