As South Africa passed the 1,000 mark, with a total of 1,170 confirmed Covid-19 infections by Friday evening,  the deputy minister of social development, Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu called on the public to recognise the particular vulnerability and needs of people living with disabilities. “We want to remind the public that persons with disabilities are among those who are particularly vulnerable to the negative impact of Covid-19, especially during this period of national disaster and the lockdown. We must not leave persons with disabilities behind,” said  Bogopane-Zulu. To ensure that people living with disabilities and their families continue to receive essential services during the ongoing 21-day national lockdown that began at midnight on Thursday, residential facilities, including centre and community-based respite facilities will remain operational during the lockdown, as they are deemed to be essential services. “The outbreak of Covid-19 threatens the safety and well-being of persons with disabilities as some of them depend on support from others to maintain their independence. As a department, we are putting measures in place to ensure the protection and continuity of support to persons with disabilities amid the 21-days lockdown and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic,” said  Bogopane-Zulu. “It is important that persons with disabilities and the organisations that represent them be considered not only as beneficiaries, but should also be included as partners in the national response Covid-19 pandemic. We call on organisations that provide family support and services to persons with disabilities to take all necessary measures to protect their personnel and those they serve at this critical time.” As part of the precautionary measures, the department has suspended all visits and new admissions to residential and respite care facilities for persons with disabilities, with the exception of persons with disabilities in distress.  Bogopane-Zulu also stressed that it is important that information on Covid-19 must be available in South African sign language and other accessible means, modes and formats, including accessible digital technology. To ensure that people living with disabilities receive accessible information during this critical time, the Gender Based Violence (GBV) Command Centre (0800 428 428) has a Skype line (add “Helpme GBV” to your Skype contacts) and “Please Call Me” facility: *120*7867#. There is also an SMS line, 31531, where people with disabilities can access help.