East London-born Oyama Dyosiba’s star is on the rise in the entertainment industry. In 2010, Dyosiba founded the Oyama Management Agency, which focuses on public relations, marketing, talent and event management. Dyosiba also starred on television shows Isidingo: The Need, Scandal, Tempy Pushes, My Girl “D”  and in numerous adverts around Africa. In 2014, Oyama Management Agency was named best agency in SA by the Sylbna Fashion and Lifestyle Awards. In the same year, GQ Magazine named Dyosiba among their 10 best-dressed men in SA. He gave the keynote address at the 10th Tomorrow’s Leaders convention. “I have been managing my superstar cousin Zahara,” he said. “We have been touring the world and, once the lockdown is lifted, we have a world tour in North America, Africa and the UK planned. “We had 21 shows already scheduled this year but due to Covid-19 we had to postpone. “The pandemic has been extremely tough on our industry, with live performance revenue the biggest casualty. “A six-month shutdown has cost us millions in revenue. “However, the industry is fighting back with new ways to monetise music consumption and innovative models. “The crisis is likely to accelerate underlying trends in the music industry, based on the importance of streaming, which has grown from 9% to 47% of industry revenues in just six years. “Though the music business has been impacted by the pandemic, I see a silver lining to this dark cloud.” Dyosiba will be hosting a talent show later in 2020, Talented Africa, at the Durban ICC. “Unlike other talent shows, the new show will not be restricted to SA participants and welcomes performers from across the African continent. “The aim of Talented Africa is to unveil Africa in more than words through arts and cultural explosion, and promote unity among African countries,” he said. The judging panel comprises six renowned professionals originating from three African countries. This includes Zimbabwean poet Albert Nyathi, Ugandan musician Cinderella Sanyu, Zahara, praise poet Zolani Mkiva and Dyosiba. Dyosiba aims to help creative minds in the Eastern Cape get the assistance they need. “I believe Eastern Cape artists are struggling because they do not have the right resources and there aren’t enough opportunities compared to other provinces,” Dyosiba said. “We work in an industry where knowledge is key. “You need to build relationships and networking is vital. “People need to learn about each different sector within the industry. “You must be strong-minded and patient, because success doesn’t come overnight.” DispatchLIVE