I feel torn between the necessity and futility of name changes. Strict budgets,  terms of reference and time frames should hold sway. The process should be as inclusive as possible. Financial implications shouldn't be used  by detractors. I'm so uncomfortable with  offensive names that abound from the past, like Durban. On the flipside, I feel  double standards apply. First, IsiXhosa  is replete with words borrowed from Afrikaans and English, including surnames. Second, most parents  prefer English as the medium of instruction in schools, despite  the advantages of mother-tongue learning. Third, most isiXhosa speakers  mix English into their conversations. Fourth, the admixture of blood among various cultures cannot be  wished away. For better or worse, the cultural heritage of black people is inextricably intertwined with that of white people. Such is the impact of colonial  domination on an irretrievable way of life. — Camagu Mnqophiso Nkuhlu, via e-mail I fully agree with Sizwe Fubesi (“eMonti Already Has a Name”, DD Sep 9) that renaming East London  kuGompo is not the way to go. We already have Gompo in East London. For decades and even centuries East London has been known as eMonti to everyone from here to Cape Town, Durban, Gauteng and beyond our borders. eMonti (river mouth) has nothing to do with politics or racism. Buffalo River  has been here forever. We accept that the name will change but please keep it as eMonti, as it is already known to us all. Beyond writing letters,  I urge all who agree to name of eMonti  to send an e-mail to objections@ecsrac.gov.za by 20 September 2020. — C Holland, via e-mail The EFF does not know what it is doing in this Clicks saga, really. How many members of the EFF and their children are wearing weaves and  using products to straighten their hair? First look in the mirror and boycott all  weaves and hair relaxers. As they say, empty barrels make the most noise. Instead of engaging the EFF revert to destruction and speak about Africa as if Africa owes them an apology! — Burton Brown, via e-mail