Deputy  labour  minister Boitumelo Moloi and deputy police minister  Cassel Mathale have been making the rounds in Buffalo City Metro to check on measures aimed at countering the "twin pandemics" of Covid-19 and gender-based violence. They visited Cecilia Makiwane Hospital and the Thuthuzela Care Centre in Mdantsane on Tuesday. Moloi said: “Our main responsibility during the visit was to give  support. Gender-based violence and Covid-19  have been declared  the two pandemics the country is now facing. “The president wants us to give support where necessary and help  mitigate some of the challenges districts and metros are facing.” Moloi and Mathale were impressed by what they saw at Cecilia Makiwane. “We are really grateful and impressed by how the hospital is dealing with this (Covid-19) pandemic. Compared to many other hospitals in the country, the number of deaths is low. This  achievement  surely does deserve to be recognised and  celebrated. We acknowledge the work the hospital has done for the province,” Moloi said. However, she did find fault with  maintenance of the building. “The newly renovated structure is only three years old, but already there are faults that I have spotted. They need to maintain the outside and inside of the building. This institution represents the past and present of the province.” Hospital CEO Sicelo Msi informed the ministers of the latest strategies and plans at the hospital. “Cecilia Makiwane's Covid-19 preparedness and response was developed to focus on  case detection, infection prevention, clinical management of  patients, human resources, and occupational health and safety,” Msi said, adding there had been 366 Covid-19 related deaths at the facility. The Thuthuzela Care Centre in Mdantsane  was formed in response to the urgent need  to respond to and support victims of rape and sexual assault. “We  need  transport  for survivors  after they are discharged from the centre. Many hospitals across the province refer patients to the centre due to lack of resources,” Mathale said. “We have been told that  placement of victims is another challenge, as it is unsafe to take them back to the place where they were violated. Some experience these unfortunate events at their homes. The community and NGOs need to play a role in ensuring the safety of victims in their communities.” He added police needed to “pull up their socks” when dealing with sensitive cases, as they had received the necessary training. DispatchLIVE