South Africans from all walks of life celebrated Heritage Day with a lot of fanfare. For a moment the Rainbow Nation that we are all so proud of came to the fore as the euphoria of being “proudly South African” engulfed us. We watched with great admiration for the whole week as South Africans took heed of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Jerusalema Challenge. South Africans in their diversity danced at schools, workplaces, beaches and homes. Amid that joy and happiness, in his message on Thursday, Ramaphosa reminded us of a big social ill. “So long as women are being harassed, abused, beaten, raped and murdered, we cannot say we are a civilised society. Abusing women is not our tradition, nor is it our custom,” he said. It’s so sad that this reminder comes barely a few weeks after Women’s Month, a time where we salute the bravery of those who marched to the Union Buildings in 1956. Sadly, in the previous month, this newspaper published several stories about women who were savagely killed by men they loved or trusted. We reported about the killing Wits University student Asithandile “Kwasa” Zozo, who had a dream of saving lives by working in the medical field. She was allegedly attacked in front of her 10-year-old sister and their 20-year-old cousin. We can only imagine how traumatised the 10-year-old must have been. We also reported of the killing of Noloyiso Gengqa “execution-style” at the Mandleni Junior Secondary School at Xunu village near Mthatha. The alleged killer was an ex-boyfriend of Gengqa. For how long shall we keep on counting bodies of our mothers, sisters and aunties? For how long shall we keep on reporting on the rape of women and children in our Rainbow Nation? We agree with you Mr President. We are still in the throes of oppression if women continue to live in fear. The president’s statement is a stark reminder to those who have made gender-based violence their “tradition”. They represent no one with their savage behaviour. South African citizens have spoken, they have protested and wrote petitions. Similar statements echoed by Ramaphosa on Thursday have been heard before. The big question is: what next? The country needs tougher action against those whose new “culture and traditions” is abuse. Women and children cannot live in fear forever. We hope the president and his colleagues will come up with harsh punishments for the delinquents who are soiling the image of our beautiful nation.