Properly construed, there was “no ambiguity whatsoever” to the hate speech clause in the Equality Act, said the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) in the Constitutional Court on Tuesday. The clause, section 10 of the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, has often been criticised for being badly drafted and difficult to understand. Last year, the Supreme Court of Appeal set it aside as unconstitutional, saying it was “barely intelligible”. The clause is now before the highest court, which must decide whether to confirm the appeal court’s order. The act says no one “may publish, propagate, advocate or communicate words based on one or more of the prohibited grounds, against any person, that could reasonably be construed to demonstrate a clear intention to a) be hurtful; b) be harmful or to incite harm; c) promote or propagate hatred”. There is a list of prohibited grounds, which includes race, gender, sexual orientation and others. It is unclear whether the words must be hurtful, harmful and promote hatred or whether it only needs to be one of the three — what the court referred to as a conjunctive or a disjunctive reading of the act. And what does “hurtful” mean, asked the Supreme Court of Appeal, finding that it was unconstitutionally broad. Tuesday’s court case originated in a 2008 column in the Sunday Sun by Jon Qwelane, in which he condemned same-sex marriage, saying he hoped parliamentarians would stand up and rewrite the constitution otherwise “at this rate, how soon before some idiot demands to ‘marry’ an animal”? He argued that SA’s constitution “allows” it. The article sparked a deluge of complaints to the SAHRC, which then took Qwelane to the Equality Court. Qwelane responded by saying that hate speech provision under the Equality Act was unconstitutional. The constitution excludes certain speech from its protection in section 16 — if it is incitement of imminent violence or “advocacy of hatred that is based on race, ethnicity, gender or religion, and that constitutes incitement to cause harm”. But the Equality Act goes much further — not just harmful words are prohibited, but hurtful words also, said Qwelane. There were many more grounds listed in the act as well — such as sexual orientation and HIV status, he argued. Qwelane’s counsel, Mark Oppenheimer, argued that not only was the act unconstitutional, but also that Qwelane’s column was not hate speech. There was no incitement to harm, he said — no call to action. He said Qwelane was merely expressing a view on gay marriage. For years, gay marriage was considered an anathema to morality, he said, but it was through freedom of expression that people were able to persuade each other that this was wrong, he said. Counsel for friend of the court Media Monitoring Africa, Gilbert Marcus SC, said the constitutionality of the hate speech provision should be a separate issue from the “vile” remarks made by Qwelane. Marcus said that the rule of law required laws to be accessible, clear and predictable, but there were serious problems with the intelligibility of this law. He added that the Constitutional Court had already adopted the position that the right to freedom of expression extended to speech that offended, shocked and disturbed. This was not an abstract principle, he said, and it reflected a deeper philosophical principle of SA’s constitutional order: that constitutional protections extend not only to the weakest among us, but also the worst among us. But Tembeka Ngcukaitobi SC, for the human rights commission, said the Supreme Court of Appeal had got it very wrong in how it had interpreted the freedom of expression and equality provisions of the constitution. Referring to an earlier Constitutional Court judgment, Ngcukaitobi said section 16(2) was “definitional” — it defined the type of of speech that fell outside the constitution’s protection. The rest of speech was protected, but the legislature was still free to limit that — if it was justifiable under section 36 of the constitution, he said. Section 36 allows laws to limit fundamental rights if it is justifiable in an open and democratic society based on dignity, equality and freedom. He argued that the hate speech clause was justifiable. “South Africa is not America. South African is not Canada, it is not Europe. South Africa’s very foundation is racial discrimination. When this country was established, it was established as a country of white people, where the majority ... were told they were non-citizens,” he said. However, Mfesane Ka-Siboto, for the Freedom of Expression Institute, had argued that before the court could even get to deciding whether the clause was justifiable, it first had to be sufficiently clear. He said the legislature had a duty to enact legislation that was reasonably clear and, in this case, the court would be unable to ascertain what it was testing for justifiability because of how vague the equality provision was. When asked how an ordinary person would know what “hurtful” meant, Ngcukaitobi said hurtful needed to be looked at in conjunction with the listed grounds — it was not just hurtful, but hurtful on grounds that you belonged to certain groups. It was degrading speech, he said. Wim Trengove SC, representing the Holocaust and Genocide Foundation, said the section was “unhappily worded”, but “not fatally so”. He said it could be read in a way that was constitutionally compliant, but that the appeal court had been wrong in its approach. Trengove said the point of the Equality Act was to prevent discrimination, making the relevant section of the constitution section 9, which deals with equality, and not section 16, which deals with freedom of expression. The court therefore needed to measure the act against section 9 and not section 16, he said. Kate Hofmeyr, for the Psychological Society of South Africa, said this was not an academic question. This case would determine whether, after so many years, the LGBTQI community would finally get an apology from Qwelane, who had acted in a way that had dehumanised them, and at a time of unprecedented levels of violence against them.