The metro needs to reassess its stance on water tariffs and billings ("‘Punitive’ water billing meant to curb excessive use in drought, says BCM”, DD Sep 3). The current system is unfair. Because meters are not regularly read, when they finally are, the 20KL allowance is exceeded but for which month?  Nobody knows. So, all the water used is unfairly charged at the penalised rate. The other unfairness comes when you have two dwellings on a single erf. Each dwelling or household should be entitled to the 20KL allowance. Is there any reason why not?  Both dwellings were legally built on a single erf. The anomaly is that a second dwelling or granny flat built on a single erf is usually done for economic reasons. The second dwelling should in all fairness receive a water subsidy, not a penalty. Why is water so expensive in the first place?  It never used to be. It’s a basic right which should be free or subsidised, not a cash cow. — Simon Kirk, Nahoon Mouth Wongaletu Vanda’s letter to the editor “Think it Through, Cyril” about the gutting of the NPA (DD Sep 2) is spot-on. There is a simple solution to the inadequate funding of the NPA: there are many qualified and competent investigators, prosecutors, lawyers, accountants, economists and administrators  willing to work on a “no win, no fee” or “contingency fee” basis. A negotiated percentage of funds recovered/ assets reclaimed would incentivise the recovery of the stolen billions. A win-win result all round! An added bonus would see the departure — hopefully to a prison cell — of all the corrupt officials and their henchmen now enjoying their spoils at the expense of the poor. — Rob Taylor, Gonubie It's great to see all these new speed cameras coming up in BCM but what's needed is visible, no-nonsense traffic officers on the Black Road policing things like  children driving, drunk drivers with children on their laps, taxis double-parked at Empilweni health centre and causing so much trouble in Vincent, not to mention how, at Cambridge primary school, parents park on the pedestrian crossing, leaving children no option but to run around the cars. — Faried Kops, via e-mail