Determined not to be an unemployed statistic, 23-year-old Siviwe Piliso decided to become her own boss. And even her business is named BOSS — Beauty Organic Super Soaps. The bachelor of science in biochemistry graduate said the idea for her business was born from her personal experience with skin problems. “Due to our country being known for its high unemployment rate, I decided to use the knowledge I acquired from the University of Fort Hare, and make my own home-made, organic soaps.” Piliso, who is from Dimbaza, said she had tested the soap on herself. When she noticed an improvement in her skin, she  established her business. “BOSS is still a small business that needs some financial assistance. “I operate from home at the moment. “The main challenge I face  is getting funding to properly start up the business. “It is not easy to attract customers or revenue, especially if one operates from a back room and with no proper packaging,” Piliso said. The young entrepreneur makes three types of products: aloe, lemon and a facial scrub soap. “They are all chemical free. “I believe people should use facial products that do not have ingredients that are harmful to the skin. “The lemon soap is made for acne scarring, the aloe soap for acne and the scrub facial soap to promote smoothness of the skin.” The  microbiologist started her business with a mere R300 from her savings, early in 2020. However, the lockdown hit her plans hard. Piliso said she had used the money she made from selling products to buy more ingredients. She hopes that as her products attract more customers, she will be able to expand her business. “So far, I have sold more than 30 soaps to friends and family and the community of Dimbaza. “It’s not easy to attract customers when you don’t have enough funding or proper packaging, so it’s not easy for my customers to take me seriously, but I make sure I impress them by using the resources I have to make the products presentable. “Besides the organic soaps, I  aspire to create organic make-up and also to have my products reach the shelves of cosmetic stores nationwide.” People can place orders on Piliso’s Facebook page, Beauty Soap, or can visit any of her social media platforms by searching her name. “My advice to young people is to not be afraid of becoming a better version of themselves, and to not let their background hold them back from achieving their dreams. “To become a successful entrepreneur, I needed to reduce my fears and become persistent about the aim of the business, as the main aim is to help people who have  skin problems and who are allergic to products containing chemicals. “So my motto is: trust your instinct, not just a spreadsheet,” Piliso said. DispatchLIVE