An East London man accused of brutally stabbing his girlfriend eight times lied in court when he said he had no previous convictions. The 45-year-old man allegedly stabbed the mother of his seven-year-old child to death in Buffalo Flats on August 28. Sisa Ndlova appeared before magistrate Kevin von Bratt at the East London magistrate’s court. The alleged killer said his incarceration had negatively affected his family. Ndlova said he wanted to get back to his truck driving job so he could continue supporting his family. “And to also organise my investments so that should anything happen with this case, I can leave my children safe behind,” he said. “I have too many responsibilities. I have to pay my child’s school fees and also transport her to school every day. “I also have to take my mother for her medical check-ups. Being in jail has made many things come to an end for my family,” he said. The father of five told the court he had a chronic illness and repeatedly testified that he had no previous convictions. However, the investigating officer, named Kock, whose first name could not be established, said this was a lie. Kock told the court Ndlova was a serial offender. In 1999 he had been convicted for murder and two assault cases and also has a pending rape case at the Mdantsane magistrate’s court. “The accused has a rape case that is pending,” he said. The alleged rape victim is said to be related to the accused.“ The [alleged] rape happened in 2004 but the case was only reported last year. You can see he is capable of anything if he can [allegedly] rape his own [relative].” He said the accused had also threatened three state witnesses. “One of the witnesses is a 16-year-old child who saw him [allegedly] stabbing his girlfriend. That child is still traumatised. The accused is a dangerous person. “He took advantage and [allegedly] threatened the witnesses because he was the only male there. The witnesses said he threatened to kill them.” Von Bratt postponed the case to October 29 for further investigation. “The accused has a substantial list of previous convictions. Violence against women is a major problem that has been highlighted in society recently,” he said. “The accused has two previous convictions including murder and much of the motivation he has given has been disputed by the investigating officer. “The applicant says he has children whom he needs to support but it would appear they are being looked after by his mother. “It seems there is no regular contribution to provide for his children. Bail is refused.” — DispatchLIVE