A meeting between Chippa United bosses and the sporting fraternity in Buffalo City Metro, meant to  discuss the club's possible lease of two metro stadiums, failed to take off on Sunday. A number of rugby, athletics and football stakeholders waited in vain at the Buffalo City stadium venue for the Chippa United bosses and metro officials. Chippa United boss Siviwe "Chippa" Mpengesi wrote  last week  to BCM sport stakeholders, summoning them to the meeting, in which the team was to outline their plans around the pending lease and occupation of Buffalo City and Jan Smuts stadiums. A protest action by those opposed to the planned takeover for a sporting academy was to be held at the meeting venue. Attempts to get comment from both Mpengesi and BCM spokesperson Samkelo Ngwenya yielded no response as they both failed to respond to sent questions on Sunday. Meanwhile, dozens of disgruntled “rugby lovers” got together to protest against the “illegal leasing” of the  stadiums to Chippa Holdings. The group of over 100 that met at the stadium were made up of rugby players, coaches and administrators. Border Rugby Union's general council chair, Elliot Fana, on Sunday said their protest action was long coming because they had not been officially informed of any takeover of their longtime home ground, the Buffalo City stadium. "The news that the stadium was going to be leased to a businessman made us act. "We need to get the facts behind this [deal] because no one informed us that they wanted to lease the stadium to Chippa. No consultation means protocol was not followed.” Fana added: “We wrote letters to the head of the sports portfolio [at BCM], to the mayor and to the MEC of sports, recreation, arts and culture to give us clarity on the matter and to understand why this is happening now. We [rugby fraternity] had to hear in the media about the proposed lease to Chippa, which is not right.” “This whole thing is a surprise. Such things should be spearheaded by government, but we’ve heard nothing from BCM or had no consultation with them.” Former Buffalo City stadium manager Akhona Mgijima said the stadium had been the “home of Border Rugby” for over 100 years. “As a rugby fraternity it bothers us that Buffalo City stadium can just be taken away without any consultation. “This stadium was built by rugby for rugby and it was improved by rugby. Only in 2010 did soccer come in and do some improvements, but it’s been all rugby. Now they want to take it away.” While the protesters were gathered at the stadium waiting for the meeting to start, BCM metro cops arrived to evict them. “The councillor at the meeting (ward 50 ANC councillor Thobile Mtya), who was there in his rugby capacity, spoke to the cops and got them to leave,” said Mgijima. Mtya said  police had asked them to leave as they did not have authority to meet at the stadium. DispatchLIVE