There has been widespread outrage after a report that US President Donald Trump made vulgar, disparaging comments about democratic SA’s first president, Nelson Mandela, and both the ANC and the Nelson Mandela Foundation have issued statements rebuking Trump and sharply criticising his style of leadership in the US. The Washington Post reported on the weekend that according to a book written by Michael Cohen, Trump’s disgraced former lawyer, the US president had said that Mandela,  a Nobel peace prize laureate who is revered internationally, had messed up SA and “was no leader”. We concur with the ANC that Trump is not fit to comment on Mandela's accomplishments. “All freedom-loving people of the world are appalled by these insults, which come from a person who himself is not a model of competent leadership,” said the ANC, which slammed Trump as the most “divisive, misogynistic and disrespectful person” ever to be a US president. In a similar vein, the Mandela Foundation said it did not think leaders who conducted themselves like Trump were in a position to offer authoritative commentary on Madiba. The remarks attributed to Trump — part of a raft of racist viewpoints that Cohen says the US president holds — are par for the course, given Trump’s propensity for articulating outrageous and ill-considered views. Belligerent and grandiose, playing to a redneck constituency, Trump’s stint at the helm of the US, a country that regards itself as the leader of the free world, has been deeply divisive, fractious and inherently anti-democratic. That the US has lost more lives than any other country to Covid-19 is in no small part because of its China-baiting president’s weak leadership. He has meanwhile encouraged armed vigilantes to confront Black Lives Matter protesters, fuelling civil unrest in his country. Mandela said: “What counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived. It is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will determine the significance of the life we lead.” Viewed through this prism, history is unlikely to judge Trump kindly.