While journalism is unlikely  to be considered a major driving force behind social change, it can play a vital role in facilitating progress towards that change. Giving people a voice, exposing the rot that too often goes with political power and holding leaders to account tends to oil the wheels of positive change. It is for this reason that the social development department  remains on the radar of this newspaper. It has a vital role to  play in such a large, poor and rural province, and yet the department has a notorious history of trying to evade embracing that role. Instead its vision, which promises “comprehensive, integrated and sustainable social development services to assist the vulnerable, poor and marginalised”, remains a distant mirage. Over many years I have written about the failings of the Eastern Cape social development department, and its predecessor, the welfare department. Its long-serving former  spokesperson, Gcobani Maswana, was on my speed dial. No matter how tough and confrontational the questions, he always treated me kindly. Sadly, he  died. An enormous communication vortex now exists in that department. But there were many times when even Maswana was simply unable to answer those tough questions. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, in a bid to root out corruption and “ghost beneficiaries” the department embarked on a massive grant re-registration drive. Its modus operandi was to simply cancel all grants, requiring beneficiaries to go through a long reapplication process. While the intention may have been noble, the means was inhumane and led to extreme hardship and even the death of many genuinely disabled people  who relied on grants that disappeared overnight. The wide reportage by the Daily Dispatch on the fallout, and its personalisation of the hardship caused to the vulnerable, contributed to to the Legal Resources Centre bringing the first-ever class action in SA's new constitutional dispensation. The LRC took the department to court on behalf of 100,000 disabled pensioners in the Eastern Cape whose grants were arbitrarily cancelled as a result of the massive re-registration process. And it won. Not content with the high court decision, the department fought the case all the way to the Supreme Court of Appeal, which let it know in no uncertain terms how little that court thought of the decision to prolong the agony of thousands through the appeal process. Then-SCA judge Edwin Cameron famously wrote: “The province’s approach to these proceedings was contradictory, cynical, expedient and obstructionist. It conducted the case as though it was at war with its own citizens, the more shamefully because those it was combating were, in terms of secular hierarchies and affluence and power, the least in its sphere.” It had become a deeply personal issue for me, and Cameron’s words reverberated powerfully. Despite the victory, the social grant chaos in the Eastern Cape persisted. This newspaper began a campaign of exposing the length of time it took for grant applicants to have their grant approved. In some cases we exposed how grant applicants had died while waiting years to get a response from the department. Again, the LRC stepped in and litigated on their behalf. A system was put in place which permitted the department just three months to decide on an application, and it was then obliged to provide backpay from the date of application. In no small measure because of the bad press and the litigation against the Eastern Cape department, the national government in 2007 created the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa), a national agency that took over the function of distributing grants. But, even in its reduced role, the social development department fails those who rely on it. Every year, without fail, the Dispatch reports on the department's failure to pay subsidies timeously to the organisations that do the department’s work on its behalf, supplying social services better and cheaper than the department itself could ever do. Annually, organisations supporting the elderly, the disabled and children — all of whom have in place service level agreements with the department — are forced to battle for and beg  for subsidies owed. In the same mean spirit, and at the height of the current pandemic and lockdown, the social development department again hurt those who depend on it, this time  cutting all subsidies to organisations it claimed should not be allowed to function in a lockdown. Despite finding their subsidies suddenly slashed, many of those organisations stepped up to give food and provide support and care to the vulnerable, even while getting no support from a department that is mandated by law to provide it. We  write about these cases,  and will continue to do so. And these organisations are now  litigating for their rights. There can be little doubt that the Daily Dispatch's coverage of the grants debacle in the past and the legal action that ensued contributed to major policy and other positive shifts. We hope that our continued coverage of the ongoing failures of this department will find an echo somewhere at a national level, and that once again our coverage will oil the wheels towards positive change.