Steve Biko would have been monumental in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, it was said  at the commemoration of the anti-apartheid activist’s death in King William’s Town on Saturday. Biko died in detention 43 years ago, at the age of 31,  at the hands of the apartheid regime. He is remembered as a visionary, an iconic leader of the Black Consciousness Movement and a philosopher with profound assertions and ideologies. Among those in attendance were Biko’s wife Ntsiki, his son Nkosinathi, who is  the executive trustee of the Steve Biko Foundation, his other son Samora and grandson Avela Biko, Buffalo City Metro executive mayor Xola Pakati, Azapo leader Zama Sinuka and the head of department at sports recreation, arts and culture, Sibongile Mafu. Mafu, who was in attendance on behalf of MEC Fezeka Nkomonye, spoke of Biko’s stint as a medical student at the University of Natal in 1966. “Biko was a visionary who would have provided solutions today on our health system and poverty alleviation. He also would have been monumental in the fight against Covid-19,” said Mafu. Sinuka said Biko was “different things to different people”. “As the father and founder of the Black Consciousness Movement, to the academics, Comrade Steve was a philosopher and an exemplary measure of behavioural science during a volatile political climate. “To Christians, he was an example of a man who lived a sacrificial life. He could have become a medical doctor, but he chose the life that he led.” “To students of  criminal law, Biko was a stellar example of conflict resolution to restore harmony,” said Sinuka. He said Biko had been passionate about the advancement of black people. According to the Steve Biko Foundation, the intimate gathering at Biko’s grave was the only live ceremony to mark the struggle stalwart’s death, as Covid-19 regulations had limited the access to gatherings. Pakati said Biko had been a philosopher and political icon whose life was proof of the immortality of his ideas. “The Buffalo City Metro is proud to be part of the legacy of Steve Biko. His assertions were profound and forever remembered.” Pakati said Biko had fought against racism. Pakati condemned what he said was the latest case of racism in the country,  a Clicks advert that went viral on social media after it labelled black hair as frizzy, dull and dry and white hair as "normal". Pakati ended his speech with a quote from Biko which read: “So as a prelude whites must be made to realise that they are only human, not superior. “Same with blacks. They must be made to realise that they are also human, not inferior.” Kholosa Tshandana of the Steve Biko Foundation said Biko’s relevance and ideologies resonated with young people. “As a young black woman navigating through life, I’m able to identify discipline, resilience and bravery through the life Biko lived.” “Those principals are still relevant today. Biko’s legacy lives on,” Tshandana said. Tshandana said the anniversary of Biko's death was the second-most tweeted topic in the world on Saturday. Across social media, American civil rights activist Reverend Al Sharpton delivered the 20th annual Steve Biko memorial lecture. The legendary civil rights activist has been vocal in the Black Lives Matter movement. DispatchLIVE