Twenty-seven ANC members in the Eastern Cape have been  flagged as  facing either internal disciplinary action or the courts, five of them provincial executive committee members. The ANC has confirmed it investigated and cleared premier Oscar Mabuyane. Transport MEC and provincial executive committee (PEC) member Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe is still under investigation. In a list submitted to the ANC national executive committee by provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi last week, the 27 members are listed as facing a range of charges including rape, robbery, theft, abuse, fraud and corruption. The ANC national executive committee decided at its special meeting last week that all leaders who face criminal charges must vacate their positions pending their court cases. A list of those affected in the Eastern Cape is part of a report from the provinces that was prepared for the NEC meeting. In the list, Ngcukayitobi  states the report is an account of all cases that involves party members  who have either been dealt with by the provincial disciplinary committee or provincial integrity commission. “The ANC SG [Ace Magashule] convened a meeting on  August 19 to – among other issues – outline terms of reference for  officials to provide a report on members of the ANC who are criminally charged and need to step aside.” Ngcukayitobi said four party members including councillors in Alfred Nzo, Raymond Mhlaba and Intsika Yethu council were accused of rape or sexual harassment. While the individuals have been named in the report, the Dispatch is withholding their names because it is not clear that they have pleaded in a criminal court to the charges brought against them. In terms of provisions for crimes of a sexual nature, an accused may only be named if they have pleaded in court to a charge. Ngcukayitobi  said  one councillor was accused of raping a 14-year-old epileptic child. There were no reports from the region about the case. Another was holding onto his position as councillor and chair of a municipal committee despite his rape case pending before court. The council has never acted. “The PEC recommends that he be recalled from extra deployment, must be subjected to internal ANC processes, and that Cogta MEC [Xolile Nqatha] follow up on these cases.” Ngcukayitobi  said another councillor  was immediately suspended by the PEC and instructed to step aside while facing a provincial disciplinary processes after he was accused of rape. The list reveals that another councillor stands accused of  raping two East London sex workers at gunpoint. He was  suspended from all leadership positions and is due to appear in court again in November. King Sabata Dalindyebo  councillor  Mbongeni Mabaso was expelled by the party after he allegedly  defrauded a destitute woman  of her  RDP house  valued at R25,000. Mabaso was also alleged  to have given Covid-19 food parcels to friends. Another KSD councillor, Xolani Mbongwana, allegedly stole R120,000 from a woman under the pretence of buying her a taxi in 2017. Ngcukayitobi said the amount was transferred to Mbongwana through his FNB Account. “He bought the taxi  for R100,000 and registered it in his name and continued to use it for his business interests - therefore he bought himself a taxi using an old lady’s savings. “The municipality has not acted on this shameful and wicked behaviour after it was notified, and investigations were conclusive that indeed he stole the money. The ANC PEC decided on his recall and to subject him to the disciplinary processes.” A  deceased ANC councillor at Kouga municipality, identified only as councillor Melani in the report,  allegedly issued fraudulent spaza shop permits, while a Nelson Mandela Bay Metro councillor, Vukile Dyele, is said to have publicly sworn at and threatened community members who had complained of the water crisis in their area. Dyele is also said to have requested R500 donations each from 60 foreign nationals. No one knows what happened to the donations. His comrade, Morris Mzimkhulu Ngabane, was fined R10,000 for issuing taxi permits during lockdown, while Andile Lungisa faces criminal charges for assaulting a fellow councillor. Ngcukayitobi's  report  recommends that Buffalo City Metro councillor Ntombizodwa Gamnca be removed from her post. She was given a suspended sentence and fined R10,000 for assaulting a fellow councillor. ANC PEC member and Amathole regional secretary Teris Ntuthu is on the list after being arrested  on allegations of fraud and corruption relating to a municipal tender in Mnquma municipality. The matter is still before court. Transport MEC and PEC member Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe is facing the party's integrity commission over the alleged use of her daughter's guest house as a quarantine site and allegations of irregular appointments in her department. Her fellow PEC members, premier Oscar Mabuyane and public works MEC Babalo Madikizela have also faced the party's integrity commission, while controversial Alfred Nzo district mayor Sixolile Mehlomakhulu was sent for an anger management course over a well-publicised physical stand-off with his family members. An official at health MEC Sindiswa Gomba's office, Ayanda Matinise, who recently made headlines when he was arrested in King William's Town, driving a state car without authority, allegedly while drunk,  is to face the party's provincial disciplinary committee, Ngcukayitobi said.