I salute Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane for the wonderful job he has done for the past few years. He is a dedicated coach with a passion of what he is doing. Pitso  who practices what he preaches. I'm proud of him because he is local and black, and is producing the best football around at the moment. He is a long-term planner with a unique coaching style. He analyses a match immediately he gets home and makes changes in no time. Even other coaches respect him because he works well with everyone around him. — Mzwandile Mqotyana, via e-mail As Bhisho will first need to satisfy the requirements of the National Heritage Council and SA Heritage Resources Agency, talk of removing statues (DD Sep 5) doesn’t  trouble me as much as  what these plans say about the political parties and their supporters. The ANC’s 26-year record of crime and corruption is common cause. Talk of name changes and removing statues is a cynical move to distract the electorate while it prevents anybody being held accountable. The EFF is excellent at destruction, but has no other strategy.  If you think you have nothing now, the EFF path will take even that from you. The DA lost its way when it became obsessed with not being a “white” party. They have never presented a viable alternative that would make sense to any reasonable person, regardless of race or gender. Is this because they don’t have that alternative or because they don’t have faith in the intelligence of SA voters? All the other parties choose to remain irrelevant and don't deserve  further comment. As we approach the next  election, remember that we, the voters, are in charge.  Our vote allows us to expel bad government — that’s what “power to the people” means. Politicians, by nature, are venal, amoral and self-seeking. Our patriotic duty is to hold them accountable. Before you vote, study the track records of the parties and critically analyse if their election promises can work in the real world.   Think long and hard about your choices. Buffalo City Metro and the Eastern Cape have everything necessary to be thriving, peaceful and prosperous. Only voter apathy and slavish dependence prevents this. — Dave Rankin, Cambridge