The curtain will come down on Saturday on what has been an entertaining 2019-20 Absa Premiership season. Champions and the team that will have a second bite at the PSL status cherry via the promotion-relegation playoffs, will be decided on the last day as the league goes down to the wire. Polokwane City are as good as relegated as they can only finish on 28 points should they win against Bidvest Wits but their -14 goal difference means their fate has all but been sealed. There is everything to play for at the top as either log leaders, Kaizer Chiefs or defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns, who are both on 56 points are one win from lifting the trophy aloft. Chiefs, who have a better goal difference of only three goals over Sundowns — will go to war with one of their bogey teams, Baroka FC, who are desperate for three points and a move away from the playoffs spot — on condition that Chippa United, AmaZulu FC and Black Leopards lose their games by big margins. Bakgaga have had Amakhosi's number since 2011 when they dumped them out of the Nedbank Cup while still in the amateur ranks. And the fact that Chiefs have been goal shy in the bio-bubble, only finding the back of the net seven times, will give the wounded Baroka, who were thumped 4-1 midweek by a rampant SuperSport United, a bit of hope. The Brazilians on the other hand seem to have found their form at the perfect time and will be eager to put at least four goals past Leopards, and hope Baroka do them a favour by at least stealing two points from Chiefs. A win by fewer than four goals will not be good enough for Sundowns — should Chiefs also win — even by a solitary goal. Having been number one since August 2019, Chiefs, who  only have themselves to blame should they not end their longest trophy drought as they blew a 13-point lead, will feel that failure to lift the title will be one of the greatest injustices in modern football. Under-fire coach Ernst Middendorp will hope the football gods are with his charges. Sundowns and Chiefs players have 90+ minutes to leave pieces of their skin on the pitch, in what will be an exhilarating, edge of the seat finale to the season. But for us in the Eastern Cape, our eyes will also be on the Chippa vs Lamontville Golden Arrows game. The Chilli Boys need just a point to avoid the playoffs and the fact that Arrows have been blunt in the last six games, only scoring twice,  bodes well for Chippa. Whatever happens, may the best teams win. Good luck to all 16 outfits.