“By 2030, we aim to be a nation that has fully harnessed the potential of technological innovation to grow our economy and to uplift our people. To this end, we have established a Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution to develop an integrated strategy.” That was President Cyril Ramaphosa responding to the Foresight Africa 2020 Report in January. He could not have imagined we would be living in a reality where a world pandemic is in full rage and an extended lockdown in effect throughout the country. Speed has suddenly become the foremost requirement in response to the crisis. Viewed this way, the president’s target of 2030 to fully harness “the potential of technological innovation” is way off mark. I would say the time for the famous idea of Africa doing a “leapfrog” into the 21st century has suddenly arrived. The commission which is supposed to develop “an integrated strategy” is a bit late. It’s time to implement that strategy! However, in the absence of a complete integrated 4IR strategy, we might have to proceed on a working document and develop a strategy along the way. Things are that bad and the required response is that urgent. “We want to be a country where our people are digital citizens, our workforce is skilled and empowered, and our youth enjoy the transformative benefits of employment in a new world of work.” The language of the president here is almost prophetic. However, I doubt he imagined the speed with which the reality of his sentiments would be so suddenly demanded. The predictions of the near future are dire. We are going to see firms close and unemployment figures rise dramatically. Poverty, which remains a stubborn stumbling block in the development of the country, is set to rise dramatically. This adds to an unacceptably high rate of unemployment, especially among the youth. It is for these reasons that SA must turn this crisis into a triumph. We must wilfully turn our economy into a hybrid economy of technological innovation and human development. Among the things the cabinet has to consider as part of the response to the economic devastation of the Covid-19 pandemic is the speedy development of a “skilled and empowered” workforce. The vast numbers of unemployed youth need to be skilled and empowered quickly. This includes people who will be losing jobs in the next few months. This will require several things, including setting up or partnering with a web-based training platform, reduced data cost, fast data networks and easy access to these resources. The programme must be attached to a downstream programme of small business and entrepreneurship training and support through to market. We have plenty of reasons to train an develop many young tech engineers. Their training should be structured in short, highly intensive and effective online courses that can build on each other to make up an equivalent of a diploma, BTech or degree over time. Most tech skills do not require the person of the student; as a result this can be established and rolled out to any youth who can secure a smartphone. Support services for these programmes would be crucial, to encourage learners to engage and complete their training. At the end of tech training, students would be required to undergo small business or entrepreneurship training, enrolled in a lifetime business hub. The same model can be adopted for other skills such as renewable energy, sustainable agriculture, business, water engineering, smart human settlements, smart logistics and others. Our attempts to stimulate the economy must do more than to simply stimulate our last economy. We need to repurpose failed firms, design new products and services, sell unprofitable SOE  and encourage rapid business development. The talent is available, the motivation is painfully obvious, we need to make a move to the new economy now. However, to make this successful we would have to supplement it with the long-touted “universal income grant”. We need to eradicate poverty, period. Poverty is not only unethical, but it is also unnecessary and very costly. On top of eradicating poverty for good, let’s invest in the rapid development of our people, especially young people. This is a wise investment for which we can legitimately raise our national debt. I am sure business and civil society would love to join such a programme considering the possible returns.