The novel coronavirus has had an unprecedented impact on the economic, social, political and cultural spheres at a global scale. The outbreak has brought the world to a standstill. More so, stringent conditions (such as lockdowns) imposed by different governments to curb the spread of this virus have adversely affected economic activities. The lockdown has led to the closure of large, medium and small businesses with dire consequences for the world’s work force. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) contends that 195-million jobs will be lost as a consequence of the impact of Covid-19 on economies across the world. However, as the world grapples  with the future of its work force, this difficult time coincides with the widely celebrated Workers' Day on May 1. This  appreciates and celebrates the contribution made by the world’s workforce to the development of economies across the globe. Therefore, one turns to wonder how unions across the world will respond to this looming catastrophe that is threatening to wipe out a majority of the workforces’ job security, income and sources of livelihood. The economic impact of Covid-19 is being felt across the world, with poor and developing countries such as those located in Africa being the worst affected. So far, the majority of countries have taken precautionary measures in opening up economic activities for fear of worsening the already astronomical figures of infection cases. However, it is imperative to state that the outbreak of the virus has left no stone unturned; destroying the livelihoods of workers, those seeking jobs and increasing the unemployment numbers across the world. This has resulted in a call for the provision of immediate relief to workers whose livelihoods have been adversely affected by this pandemic. Several debates have emanated with regards to Africa’s capacity to handle the fallout of Covid-19, particularly on the economy and with labour market implications. So far, the IMF has declared that Sub-Saharan Africa is going to experience an economic recession due to the impact of the virus. SA is not immune to this predicament. Different sectors of the economy such as manufacturing, construction, mining, retail, energy, automotive, agriculture, finance, insurance, ICT, legal logistics and transport, property and tourism have halted their activities and closed shop, spelling doom and disaster  for workers. Though the world has experienced calamities in the past such as the Spanish flu and ebola, as well as disastrous economic events such as the Great Depression and the 2008 Global Economic Recession that had dire consequences on the economy and work force, nothing so far has surpassed the looming catastrophe imposed by Covid-19 on the entire world. Therefore several questions and conjectures arise from this trajectory: What is going to happen to South African workers during and after the outbreak of Covid-19? How are unions going to deal with the fallout of this pandemic? Do the unions have the capacity to handle this precarious situation? Trade unions have played an important and significant role in SA since the 1880s. This is evidenced in their contribution to the emancipation of workers through representing their interests in the workplace (in aspects such as wages and working conditions) in pre- and post-apartheid SA. Moreover, their role was instrumental in the dismantling of apartheid. With the ushering in of the new democratic dispensation, Cosatu, Fedusa, NACTU, CONSAWU and lately the South African Federation of Trade Unions (SAFTU) have been at the forefront of fighting for the rights of workers. However, none of them has faced the daunting task of having to deal with problems of the magnitude of the coronavirus. This is with regards to the impending mass retrenchments and job cuts which will worsen the unemployment rate which is sitting at 29.1%. The South African economy was already fragile and in huge trouble before the outbreak of this virus. It was characterised by the disintegrating of state-owned enterprises, an ailing Eskom that was failing to provide power to major sectors such as mining and manufacturing, public sector debts, corruption and low growth rate. Economists have put the number of jobs under risk in SA above the 1.5-million mark due to the shrinking economy that has been worsened by the outbreak of the virus. So far, unions have their hands full as they are trying to fight the huge retrenchment of workers at the embattled SAA, which is just a tip of the iceberg. In a recent twist of events, Numsa and the SA Cabin Crew Association are still in  a heated clash with SAA with the unions blaming the business rescue practitioners for having ulterior motives to liquidate the airline. A suggestion has been put forward  to liquidate the company and a new state-owned entity formed. While boardroom debates go on  thousands of jobs are  on the line. Denosa is at loggerheads with the health department over the availability of Protective Personal Equipment for their workers. The health unions have managed to initiate the closure of hospitals that have had cases of health workers being infected, especially in KwaZulu-Natal. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, struggling private retail companies such as the Edcon group were already announcing closure of some of their stores while Massmart wanted to   downgrade, putting 1,440 jobs on the line. Already unions were busy with these impending cases aimed at saving the jobs of many workers within the retail sector and none ever expected to deal with the fallout of one of the biggest human tragedies the world has ever witnessed. This has put the entire future of workforce at risk and vulnerable to job cuts and loss of salaries and wages. Long drawn battles between the unions and the employers in various sectors are on the horizon. The new lockdown regulations, as announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa, will allow for the reopening of some economic sectors  under the proposed Level 4 coinciding with Workers’ Day. However, one question that comes to mind is: “Is it a little too late”? A survey conducted by Stats SA among 707 businesses shows that many of the formal sectors have been the hardest hit, especially with the introduction of the 35-day national lockdown. A huge loss in revenue due to closure of various businesses imposes a huge risk to the future of employees in this country. Workers who do not provide essential services will be the hardest hit by this pandemic, resulting in huge retrenchments. That will subsequently worsen relationships between unions and employers both in the public and private sectors.. The relationship between these two was already in a fragile state before the outbreak of Covid-19. There is a consensus that trade unions will have their hands tied in the aftermath of the virus given the forthcoming problems they are going to encounter in fighting for their workers. Since the outbreak of the virus, Saftu and Cosatu have not covered themselves in glory in their approach to address the looming job losses as well as protecting of the work force. Their leadership has been unusually quiet yet there are many issues affecting workers in SA in the wake of Covid-19. The workers have been on the receiving end with most of their representatives laying the patriotic card at a time when there is need to balance between patriotism and the genuine need for the workers to survive. This has left most people vulnerable to  exploitation and loss of jobs. The workers in this case are left with a losing battle on their own while trade unions are milking their monies through subscriptions and donations in the comfort of their offices. With this scenario, questions might begin to emerge on the relevance of unions in times of big crisis. Those in the periphery of the employment pyramid (poor and vulnerable) will face the unemployment guillotine at full force. This will further worsen  the plight of the majority of the impoverished in SA who are already faced with the triple threat and burden of poverty, unemployment and inequality. While trade unions have an illustrious history for fighting for worker’s rights in SA, it is difficult to fathom  how they will negotiate their way out of this difficult situation imposed on them by the virus. As SA joins the world in celebrating Workers’ Day on Friday, we dare to ask and legitimately so, what message do the unions have for their membership? Businesses still need time to recover from the impact of Covid-19 and this will take time for the “business as usual” chant to come back into full effect. For now, the economy is on a downward spiral and its full operation is dependent on the infection curve flattening which so far seems moderate. Unemployment will spell doom and disaster in informal settlements, townships and rural areas where a majority of South Africans reside. These constitute the largest work force in the affected industries that have closed down during the outbreak of Covid-19. Therefore, trade unions are not only faced with a task of saving jobs but also their existence and whether this will be achievable is a contentious issue given the difficult circumstances at hand. Dr Wayne Malinga is an independent researcher and consultant and Dr Odilo Ndiweni is an academic at the University of Fort Hare. They write in their personal capacity.