Mnquma local municipality has moved swiftly to allay fears over food parcels and vowed that only high quality and approved consumables would be distributed. This after  viral videos  showed maggot-infested mealie meal bags and spoiled milk received by beneficiaries in some parts of Butterworth . Following the reports, executive mayor councillor Sithembiso Ncetezo immediately recalled the food parcels and halted distribution . Ncetezo also issued a public apology for the products. “Our role was to ensure fair allocation to deserving residents. We learned our lessons the hard way. Going forward, the department of health will carry out tests to ensure that food packets are fit for consumption,” said Ncetezo. In partnership with local business people and organisations, the mayor is planning to ensure that about 250 parcels are distributed to the needy families. On Friday, Ncetezo handed over 156 grocery hampers and other essentials to 46 families from various wards across Centane and hawkers in the Butterworth CBD. “I’m engaging people from all walks of life to help us fight hunger during this Covid-19 crisis. We have a list of beneficiaries that is verified by the department of social development. It is very thorough because we need to ensure there is fair allocation so that we can reach as many people in need as possible,” he said. A further 100 food parcels were due to be distributed on Saturday April 25. Centane-born businessman Freddie Dingani said he decided to rope in a local supermarket after receiving a call from the mayor requesting assistance. He runs a security and construction business in Gauteng and Lesotho. “I have first-hand knowledge of the suffering here and that is  why I decided to help," said Dingani, adding that he was concerned about sustainable food security in the area. "We have proposed that seeds be distributed to various households so that people can be able to go back to our roots and plant the crop fields and gardens to keep the hunger at bay.”