Better late than never. After weeks of neglect, the global spotlight is finally on Covid-19’s devastating social and economic impact on the world’s most vulnerable. Statements of support, promises of help, and plans for quick aid and debt relief, albeit piecemeal, are welcome. But yesterday’s policies won’t solve tomorrow’s problems. The current focus on the immediate emergency is correct, but it must go hand-in-hand with preparations for even tougher days ahead. In some developing countries, Covid-19 risks wiping out years of hard work and an impressive steady rise in incomes. With the disruption in global supply chains, trade is slowing. Remittances are declining. Tourism is a memory. A post-crisis recovery will take time, money and effort. In the short term, almost everywhere in Asia, Africa and Latin America, creaking health systems must  be shored up, and urgently needed testing kits, ventilators and protective clothing for health workers provided. As more  developing countries go into lockdown, factories screech to a standstill and jobs disappear, cash transfers must be made quickly to the poorest to prevent famine and hunger. Many governments are already increasing domestic spending to help the poor, requiring that the liquidity of financial systems is maintained to keep money flowing to households and small businesses. There are demands — and promises — of debt relief. Ethiopia’s Prime Minister and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Abiy Ahmed wants an emergency package worth $150bn (about R2.7-trillion) for Africa to boost health spending, shore up foreign reserves and patch up social safety nets. If the virus is not defeated in Africa “it will only bounce back to the rest of the world”, he warns. The IMF-World Bank meeting on Friday  will seek a co-ordinated international response to these and other demands. The European Commission is readying its own initiative for African countries. This is welcome. But with the economic fallout from Covid-19 expected to cause the loss of up to 25 million jobs — many in the developing world — by the end of 2020, it’s equally urgent to put in place policies to tackle an even grimmer future. Rebooting the economies of most developing nations  won’t be easy. Old-fashioned aid and trade policies will need a radical rethink. Tired conversations and outdated, often transactional, interactions between rich and poor nations  must be refreshed. The EU,  with its expanding network of partners in developing countries, can spearhead the transformation. But to do so, European institutions, national governments and policymakers  must look beyond today’s challenges, short-term victories, petty rivalries and self-absorbed reflexes. Here are some  realities which must stay centre stage in upcoming EU reflections: The agenda is ambitious and in a world dominated by “my nation first” policies there will  be resistance. But a pandemic that knows no borders requires global solutions, international co-operation and help-thy-neighbour policies. Building a strong post-Covid-19 world requires changing yesterday’s policies to tackle tomorrow’s tough problems. Shada Islam is director of Europe and geopolitics at Friends of Europe, a Brussels-based think-tank In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.