A rugby revolution is coming when Covid-19 lifts and it has been given the nod of approval by Isuzu Southern Kings interim head coach Robbi Kempson. A new law sees the attacking side awarded the line-out if they can bounce a kick into touch from their own half in the opposition's 22. It is expected the law will be used at all levels as a full-season experiment, pending permanent incorporation. Kempson has welcomed the shake-up and says it will make the game more attractive for spectators. It is expected the introduction of the 50:22 law across all levels will make for a dynamic, contest. Reports in England suggest players and coaches have given their approval to a year-long trial for the 2020-2021 season, with a permanent introduction planned for the following campaign. It's styled on the 40:20 already in operation in the rugby league code. The trial is expected to be rubber-stamped at a World Rugby summit in May, in which time the game itself could well still be in self-isolation due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Trials have already taken place in Australia’s National Rugby Championship and Global Rapid rugby tournament. “It would be a very plausible addition to the laws, and should see it open the game up subtly more,” Kempson said. “Generally teams attempt to isolate the back defender in an attempt to create the space on the outside. “That is very difficult with current defensive systems, and even more so in European competitions. “What this proposed law will attempt to do is subject the last defender to make a definitive decision to be up on defence, or back to prevent the advantage of the opposition line-out in their 22. “It should open the door for more of a run kick option, which is what the spectators would prefer. “The monotony of slowing  the game down to box kick to aerial superiority or lack thereof would also limit  mid-air collisions which can go either way depending on the adjudicator on the day. “The other point is your more talented flyhalves  are suddenly back in the fold, and should have a varying degree of options available to them to manipulate the space,  and see the execution of the kick into space. “It will be a very good addition to the laws.” The 50:22 trial was born out of a player welfare imperative to reduce the risk of injury. The purpose of the trial is to thin out packed front-line defences after research showed the tackle-area accounts for 50% of injuries and 76%  of concussions. The new law would mean defenders would have to be assigned to the back field to cover kicks rather than joining the front-line rearguard. Former Newport and Cardiff  star Scott Sneddon has already seen the 50:20 in action in his role as attack coach for the South China Tigers  — Global Rapid Rugby’s Hong Kong-based team. Last season the Tigers played with a 40:22 law and got in one game under the new format this term — a 52-27 win over Manuma Samoa — before they too were closed down over the coronavirus pandemic. “We were still seeing sides defending with a back two,” Sneddon said. “A lot of teams play with a back two. Depending where you are on the field, they will be close to the 15-metre lines. “Now they’re sitting 10 or five metres from the touchline.” The Kings are  training in isolation after the Guinness PRO14 tournament was suspended indefinitely. In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.