As local races continue to fall under the axe of the coronavirus, runners are doing the damnedest things to keep themselves active, motivated and in many instances in the news. The Comrades Marathon remains a beacon of light through all this, with good lines of communication being kept open for all stake holders. It is the toughest event to simply call off, but the CMA have made it perfectly clear they will do what needs be done in the interests of all parties involved in SA's best known foot race. The latest newsletter from CMA sets out the process being followed clearly and concisely. On the local front, Old Mutual AC told the Daily Dispatch yesterday that their compendium of events over 21, 10 and 5km, on the calendar for 2 May, remains intact subject to hearing what the government has to say at the end of the current lockdown. Hams AC, on the other hand, recently confirmed that their Diesel Depot 15km race scheduled for 9 May has been cancelled, while Easy Equities Born2Run have, in conjunction with the Border athletics office, postponed the Ocean 21, which was to double as the Border Half Marathon Championships on 17 May. Meanwhile “backyard” 10km, half marathon and now even marathons are taking place all over the country and beyond. When asked what they were getting up to many runners submitted photographs of their various tracking devices or apps and, when put together, they resemble a Picasso pallet gone wrong. Mere squiggles churned out and recorded as distances run of as 7.1, 8.3, 10.6 and the like. Border's most experienced road runner, Makaya Masumpa does not use such gadgets and merely thanked all who ask after his well being or activities. He is running every day, though he is at home. In his 35 plus years of running at the highest level, he has never seen or experienced anything like the lockdown. He responds to contact with “So glad you think about an old man, stuck mostly indoors.” He is likely to be back on a podium at the first available race. By contrast, but no less experienced, Andrea Ranger is one of the better known women of the road and she is busy doing what she always does, running mostly alone on the farm outside Kei Road. With Two Oceans, mercifully cancelled for 2020, there is nothing definitive in her sights race wise and so she is “just running” and chalked up 70km on foot and 60 on the bike last week. Jessica Blundell, a team mate of Ranger's, endures a different scenario again. She has been running her backyard and also doing daily cross training sessions streamed live into her home by exercise friend and fellow runner, Jo-Mari Le Grange. In fact there are a number of the “group” on the programme. Blundell shared with us that between 2016 and to date she has shed 26kms and with the same running programme the other girls use got faster over every distance she has run from 5km to the marathon. Blundell works shifts at Beacon Bay Life and so experiences a different side of the lock down. In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.