President Cyril Ramaphosa - through the State Attorney - on Friday rejected called from the Gauteng Liquor Forum to ease the lockdown restrictions on the sale of alcohol. In the letter he said that the sale of alcohol was "self-evidently not an assential service". “On this basis alone, it was considered that the sale of alcohol should not be permitted. The sale and consumption of alcohol also has proven links to an increase in violent crime, motor vehicle accidents, medical emergencies and results in full emergency rooms and hospitals," the letter read. President Cyril Ramaphosa has emphatically denied a request from the Gauteng Liquor Forum to ease the restrictions on the sale of alcohol during the nationwide lockdown. He said that the decision was taken to uphold the restrictions because of the dangers “associated” with the sale of alcohol. The number of Covid-19 cases among prisoners and correctional services officials is fast approaching the 100 mark. In a statement on Friday afternoon, correctional services spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo confirmed that there were nine new cases of the respiratory illness confirmed — with all of the infections being department officials. Cooked food from South African supermarkets like Woolworths, Pick n Pay and Checkers are not regarded as essential goods, and trade and industry minister Ebrahim Patel has again called for their hot-food sections to be closed. Speaking at a press briefing on Thursday, Patel clarified that supermarkets' hot-food sections, like fast-food restaurants, should be closed for the remainder of the lockdown. Covid-19 infections in the Western Cape rose by 5.8% on Friday to 743, premier Alan Winde said. Winde sent his condolences to the loved ones of the six latest patients to die in the province, women aged 43, 51, 56, 59, 68 and 86. Western Cape Covid-19 deaths number 13, while 205 patients have recovered. At least two people were arrested and nine others sent back home at a roadblock on the N4 highway between Mpumalanga and Gauteng on Friday. The operation — which was attended by MECs from both provinces — was meant to strengthen and monitor compliance by public transport operators and other road users during the extended lockdown. As the country awaits President Cyril Ramaphosa’s pronouncement on whether the ban on the sale of alcohol will be relaxed, a leading expert on alcohol and drugs has warned that drastic measures to reduce the dependency on alcohol by many South Africans should be applied after the lockdown. Prof Charles Parry, director of the alcohol, tobacco and drug research unit at the SA Medical Research Council (SAMRC), said greater restrictions such as reducing the sizes of alcohol containers, a ban on alcohol advertising and making cheap alcohol more expensive are some of the long-term measures the country could adopt to reduce heavy drinking and the burden of alcohol use on health and trauma centres. The ban on alcohol sales during the lockdown is still firmly in place, and by the look of things it will not be lifted any time soon. The World Health Organisation (WHO), during a briefing in Europe on Wednesday, called on governments around the world to tighten restrictions on access to alcohol during lockdown, saying consumption can increase the risk of catching the coronavirus and worsen chances of recovery once contracted. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa on Friday announced the party was contributing R500,000 to SA's fight against the coronavirus. In a letter published on Facebook, Holomisa said this would be split between a contribution to the Solidarity Fund and the purchase of masks and food for those in need. Parliament's higher education portfolio committee will meet on Tuesday over the affect of the coronavirus lockdown. In a statement, committee chair Philly Mapulane said that higher education minister Blade Nzimade would make a presentation at Tuesday's meeting. This would deal with the plans for the department, universities, and Technical Vocational Education & Training (TVET) colleges would “rescue the 2020 academic year”. Despite the delivery of more than 4,000 water tanks to assist drought-stricken communities during the lockdown, people in some parts of OR Tambo district still have no option but to drink from the murky streams they share with their pigs, dogs and cows. Natural ponds are drying up, and sometimes the dirty water in dongas is the only option for drinking purposes, DispatchLIVE reported. The publication reported this week that 4,308 water tanks have been made available to communities in the Eastern Cape, with priority given to water-scarce areas. Buffalo City metro has recorded the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 infections in the Eastern Cape — 91 out of the provincial total of 220 — according to figures released by provincial health MEC Sindiswa Gomba on Friday. And the cluster outbreak at the West Bank prison women’s section has contributed 72 of the metro’s total. The rate of infection is 6.4%. This is the percentage of confirmed infections against the 3,413 total tests done in the province to date. The SA Association of Public Administration and Management (SAAPAM) pledged R50,000 to the Covid-19 Solidarity Fund to help combat the coronavirus pandemic. “We hope the contribution will make a difference in fighting this Covid-19 pandemic. It is important that as a professional association and individuals, we join hands to assist our government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Prof Zweli Mpehle of SAAPAM. New Yorkers usually clap, bang pots and pans, or simply cry "thank you" out of their windows every evening at 7 pm, honoring the health care workers risking their lives on the frontlines of the battle against the coronavirus. But the evening's ritual does vary. On Thursday, a volunteer choir called "Peace of the Heart" led thousands singing "New York, New York," the beloved song made famous by Frank Sinatra. Fewer than 75 food parcels for a ward. That is what is available through the department of social development for Nelson Mandela Bay residents who, in ever-growing numbers, are going hungry during the lockdown. Food aid to the Eastern Cape is under the spotlight after government figures showed the department would be able to feed only a fraction of the hundreds of thousands of destitute households across the province. The Covid-19 pandemic will likely kill at least 300,000 Africans and risks pushing 29 million into extreme poverty, the UN Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) said on Friday, calling for a $100 billion safety net for the continent. Africa's 54 countries have so far reported fewer than 20,000 confirmed cases of the disease, just a fraction of the more than two million cases reported globally. But the World Health Organization warned on Thursday that Africa could see as many as 10 million cases in three to six months. "To protect and build towards our shared prosperity at least $100 billion is needed to immediately resource a health and social safety net response," the UNECA report stated. The Covid-19 lockdown in Tsakane township, Brakpan, is not obvious at first sight. People walk or stand in groups with no masks or gloves. Young people play in the streets and the park. Warm food outlets in the township are busier than ever. Owners say business has gone up since the closure of restaurants at the local shopping mall. When police or the army patrol, people quickly disappear into their homes only to reappear when the authorities are out of sight. Teachers have expressed concern about an education department plan to hire celebrities to be part of a teaching programme, saying it would be difficult to explain mistakes to their students. Debate has been raging on social media about the reading programme which involves famous faces including Somizi, Pearl Modiade and Penny Lebyane. According to a statement released by the basic education department, the programme, called The Reading Club and an initiative of the non-profit Africa Teen Geeks, is a literacy campaign in which South African celebrities use the Zoom platform to support students with learning during the nationwide shutdown. SA’s wine industry, a main economic driver contributing R38bn to the fiscus, has been left confused and frustrated after the government this week reversed an earlier decision to allow exports during the lockdown. Last week, the government updated regulations to permit the transportation of wines and fresh produce through seaports and airports for export. The updated regulations meant the industry, which supports 300,000 jobs, would be allowed to export all finished wine, bottled and boxed. The University of Cape Town has refuted media reports that the academic programme would resume in September. UCT said it is in the process of finalising its online academic calendar to ensure that the 2020 academic year is successfully concluded. "The second term will start online on April 20 with an orientation week lasting until 25 April. Classes will start on 28 April." Cigarettes worth almost R1m were seized in Cape Town on Thursday, metro police said on Friday. Spokesperson Ruth Solomons said officers were conducting lockdown patrols on Thursday in Ravensmead when they saw a van with an “essential services” sticker. The number of coronavirus infections in Gauteng on Friday stood at 969 but the provincial health department said it was encouraging that the number of recoveries was significantly high too. Of the positive cases, 479 patients have recovered and subsequently tested negative, the provincial health department said on Friday. The Gauteng Liquor Forum says it will wait for a response from President Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday afternoon before revealing its next move. The forum, representing 20,000 small businesses in Gauteng, had asked Ramaphosa to relax restrictions on the sale and distribution of alcohol, which would allow its members to trade. It initially gave Ramaphosa a deadline of Wednesday to respond. Ramaphosa, however, asked for an extension until Friday to fully respond. Impala Platinum Mine's CEO of Rustenburg operations, Mark Munroe, is expected to appear in court on Friday for allegedly contravening lockdown regulations. Emma Townshend, from the mine’s corporate affairs department, confirmed that Munroe was expected to appear in the Bafokeng magistrate’s court after allegedly calling employees back to work. China denied Friday it had covered up the extent of its coronavirus outbreak, as it responded to growing questions from Western powers led by the United States. A foreign ministry spokesman acknowledged that the virus's rapid spread had contributed to undercounting that resulted in China raising its death toll earlier Friday, but he added "there has never been any concealment, and we'll never allow any concealment." Fast food chain Anat has resorted to crowdfunding in a bid to overcome the bitter financial squeeze served up by the coronavirus lockdown in SA. The owners are hoping good Samaritans and loyal customers can chip in to help the 30-year-old business and its staff survive long enough to reopen the business. In a bid to raise salaries for 600 staff employed at two bakeries, central kitchens and 25 franchised stores, the company owners have turned to crowdfunding. Prof Salim Abdool Karim, who has quickly become a household name in South Africa, is the government's chief adviser on Covid-19. He impressed the country on Easter Monday when he laid out the government's strategy to tackle the coronavirus. On Friday morning, he gave a webinar through the Centre for the Programme of Research in SA, where he is a scientific director. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula has reported 28 people died over the recent Easter weekend, a dramatic 82% reduction over the 162 killed last year. This corresponded with a more than 70% reduction in vehicle movement on the country's roads due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Any attempt to compare year-on-year figures was an exercise in futility as the material conditions this Easter were fundamentally different from a normal period in which traffic is able to mover freely, Mbalula said at a briefing at the Grasmere toll plaza on the N1 on Wednesday morning. Transport minister Fikile Mbalula says the number of traffic violations was low as a result of the nation-wide Covid-19 lockdown. He said 719 people were arrested for traffic violations, 144 vehicles were sent back to residents after attempting to travel elsewhere. "The total number of arrests for violation of road traffic laws stood at 719, while traffic law enforcement authorities manned 480 roadblocks. A total of 104,140 vehicles were stopped and checked at these roadblocks. The number of vehicles impounded was 236 with 171 vehicles discontinued due to unroadworthiness." "This is in contrast with the 128 crashes recorded over the same period in 2019, claiming 162 lives. Drivers constituted 42% of fatalities followed by pedestrians at 31% and passengers at 27%." He admitted that the 2020 Easter period was extraordinary as there was limited movement. "Despite the lockdown there were those allowed to travel." The Provincial breakdown of the 26 crashes is as follows: Thousands of boys have to wait until 2021 or summer to undergo the rite to manhood. This is because of a ban by the government - and traditional leaders are fuming. President Cyril Ramaphosa will on Friday make a decision on whether alcohol will continue to be banned during the second phase of the Covid-19 lockdown. The Gauteng Liquor Forum gave the president until Friday to make a decision on the total ban of alcohol, threatening to approach the  Constitutional Court  in a bid to have government allow for the trading of alcohol. Almost 79% of South Africans say their household income has been negatively impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a TransUnion survey. Since the first week of April, TransUnion has conducted weekly surveys on how SA consumers have been impacted by the lockdown. South Africans have been holding out hope that the BCG vaccine, given to newborn babies in the country at birth, provides a degree of protection against Covid-19. Recent studies, which looked at a BCG coverage map and compared it to the spread of the virus, found a correlation between vaccination and a slower spread of the virus. BCG is a tuberculosis vaccine. Hiring teachers to replace those who have Covid-19, rescheduling matric exams, “trimming” the curriculum and slashing the school day. These are some of the proposals in a draft document by the basic education department, which has been seen by Times Select. While doctors, nurses, and health care professionals at large are rightfully being lauded as heroes during the Covid-19 pandemic, there’s another set of less likely saviours facing the coronavirus front lines every day: disaster management teams, refuse truck drivers and lab workers. But the work of other essential workers — such as sanitation personnel, grocery store clerks and truck drivers — has largely gone unrecognised. Western Cape special events manager Keith Kleinhans says he has no choice but to work, but he did not believe many had spared a thought about the risks he and his colleagues face.