The SANDF is investigating soldiers who allegedly assaulted an Eastern Cape businessman and confiscated his liquor and cigarettes worth R300,000. Habtamu Tsegaye Teklehaimanot, runs the popular Ziyawa tavern at Masakhane township in James Calata (formerly Jamestown). He was sleeping when a team of more than 10 soldiers and police officers entered his premises on April 11. Tsegaye alleges that three soldiers slapped him, pushed him and  later broke his CCTV cameras after noticing they were recording the alleged assault. The video footage was sent to DispatchLIVE. He reported the matter to the police, but they issued him with a R10,000 fine instead, saying he had sold alcohol during the Covid-19 coronavirus lockdown. SANDF spokesperson captain Thabo Sello confirmed the incident was being investigated. “The SANDF takes note of the video of soldiers in what appears to be looting of a shop in Jamestown, Eastern Cape. “The internal disciplinary process is  under way and the matter is being investigated,”  Sello said. “However, the matter should be reported to the SAPS  since it is a criminal offence. The SANDF condemns such behaviour from our soldiers.” Questions have been sent to the police about the allegations but no response has been forthcoming. Tsegaye, a foreign national,  has welcomed the investigation, saying his hopes are resting on the justice system. “I have not received any of my liquor back. Instead I received a letter from the police telling me what they’ve taken. Why  did they not count the liquor with me at my place when they were assaulting me? “All the expensive liquor is gone — it is missing from the list [provided by the police],"  Tsegaye said. Two other videos seen by DispatchLIVE show police and soldiers loading the liquor and cigarettes onto police vehicles. Tsegaye said there were other soldiers and police in the front room of the tavern who ransacked his business. He insisted he had done nothing wrong. SANDF members have come under increasing scrutiny for how SA citizens are being treated as the lockdown continues. Last week, defence minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula said the government regretted an incident in Alexandra, Johannesburg,  where resident Collin Khosa was killed, allegedly by soldiers. Policing oversight and social conflict experts have called for urgent dialogue and immediate deployment of community mediators to ease tensions between law enforcement and the communities they have to keep indoors during the  lockdown. Eldred de Klerk, a comparative policing and social conflict specialist at the African Centre for Security and Intelligence Praxis, said the government was dealing with a double-edged sword. “Yes, laws must be obeyed and there are remedies to address people breaking the law, but there is never a cause for force unless there is an attack on security forces, which there has not been. “There must be answers as to why confrontational policing is occurring.” — Additional reporting by TimesLIVE In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here