A Komani man and his wife were allegedly viciously assaulted by a police officer and locked in holding cells, accused of “disrespecting” the order to stay at home during the Covid-19 lockdown. Following their nightmare experience, Sima Mvandaba, 33, and his civil servant wife, Ntombie Mvandaba, 31, have laid a complaint of assault against a police officer based at the Komani police station. On Monday Ntombie, who works for the department of employment & labour, told of the couple's three-hour ordeal at the hands of the police officer “who wanted them dead,  just for travelling to a shop to buy groceries”. She told DispatchLIVE they were arrested by an officer at a roadblock on a street leading to  Nonesi Mall from the Komani CBD. The officer, she said, had asked them where they were going during lockdown. She said they had told the officer they were on their way to the Checkers outlet at Nonesi Mall to buy groceries. “He was angry at us for not staying at home and said we were busy being romantic on the street, 'carrying chocolates while other people are at home',"  she said. “We immediately said sorry and that we promised to go home. But he didn't want to listen and he said that we must get inside the (police) car. He said is going to show us who is the boss because we are disrespectful.” She said when they got to the Komani police station, the officer, whose name is known  to DispatchLIVE, took them to the back of the station near the holding cells. “He started beating my husband Sima, and when I asked him why he was doing this, he pushed him against the wall. He then started slapping me numerous times and said I must stop disrespecting him and that my turn was coming,” she said. She said the assault on Mvandaba was relentless. “He continued beating Sima and even pushed him to the ground and he fell on his head and was unconscious for a while. The policeman shook him to try wake him up. When he eventually woke up, the policeman continued to beat him and then took him to the holding cells.” Mvandaba was then locked in the holding cells. He told DispatchLIVE on Monday night  there were about “four or five” officers who witnessed the beating, but they just “folded their arms” and did not intervene. After jailing her husband, Ntombie said, the officer returned and “dragged” her to the cells where he allegedly told her that she would be raped by other inmates. “When we got to the holding cells he started beating me up with his fists and slapping my face and when I said that I was sorry, he got more angry.” She was then led to a holding cell in the female section of the station. Ntombie said she had to sit in the cell for “30 to 40 minutes” until another police officer came to fetch her. “The officer told me that the police officer who detained us wanted to see me. When I went to him he asked my name, where I worked and he even asked me my qualifications and told me that I thought I was better than him because I was an employee at the labour department.” She said she was told to pay a R5,000 fine. DispatchLIVE has asked to be sent a copy of the fine. “He gave me a fine of R5,000 and told me that he will lock up my husband and he would rot in jail and when I asked him for what, he told me that I liked asking nonsense.” She said she was later given her husband's belongings and told to “f**k off”. She was refused a lift home. “Since we arrived there after 5pm at the station, it was an ordeal I will never forget, at the hands of police who should protect us. There were no taxis when I got out and it was close to 9pm and I had to walk home.” When she returned to the police station to lodge a complaint on Sunday morning, she said she was told by a police officer at the community services centre they had been arrested for drug possession. An angry Ntombie said: “Where were the drugs? Why were they not shown to us, or told about this on the day we were assaulted? Surely they read you the charge and tell you what you are arrested for? I was told that my charge was contravention of this lockdown. I'm very disappointed and hurt.” For most of Monday, Ntombie was unable to track down her husband. Eventually on Monday afternoon, she found him at the Komani magistrate's court. He said he was not even charged with any crime before he was released. The Dispatch was unable to confirm this at the time of writing. A senior officer at the station, Colonel Loyiso Ngalo, said he told officers at the station that the Mvandabas  must be allowed to open a case. “There's never a time where we will turn people away to say they cannot open cases here.” The couple had gone to lay a complaint of assault at the police station on Monday evening, and were in the process of doing so at the time of writing. In the public interest, none of our coronavirus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.