One of SA’s leading banks has devised a programme that offers citizens a free online Microsoft digital literacy course regardless of who they bank with. The online course by Standard Bank and Pioneering Solutions Studio is available on the bank’s website. People can register online with their personal details and explore a range of digital skills and practices to pursue. Lindy-Lou Alexander, the bank’s personal and business banking head of marketing, said the course focused on everything from basic knowledge, like how to use a computer and the internet, to keeping individuals safe online She said it also focused on how to use the most common Microsoft productivity software applications, including Word, Excel and PowerPoint. “This online course is open to all South Africans during and post the temporary disruption of learning due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “It explores a range of digital skills and practices over four key modules, providing the learner with the ability to use technology to interact with world around them,” Alexander told DispatchLIVE. Upon completion, participants receive a Microsoft Imagine Academy certificate that would allow them to claim recognition of prior learning in digital literacy at any institution of higher learning. “To register, learners will need a device, such as a phone, tablet or computer, with internet connectivity, a valid e-mail address, and their South African ID number. “Learners that do not have an e-mail address can register for a free Microsoft Outlook e-mail account from the platform.” The initiative is founded on the principle of digital being the future of education. “Millions of people around the world are unable to work as a result of quarantines and lockdowns. “In today’s digital world, nearly every career requires digital communication at some point, so at Standard Bank, we believe that equipping yourself with the skills to effectively and responsibly find, evaluate, communicate and share online content is key to your future. “You need a certain level of digital literacy to turn on your computer so that you can connect with loved ones but require different skills to locate and complete an online job application. “Standard Bank wants you to be digitally literate and savvy, whether you bank with us or not,” Alexander said. The course will continue to be available after lockdown. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here