There were moves to implement a total shutdown in Port St Johns from 10am on Friday, but local mayor Nomvuzo Mlombile-Cingo later decided otherwise. However, the memo written by Mlombile-Congo, which was later retracted, left many people confused. The memo was widely circulated on Thursday and Friday morning. Speaking to DispatchLIVE at 6am on Friday, the mayor urged people to only observe the national lockdown regulations and ignore her memo. ''In fact it was not an instruction or an order, but a request,” the mayor said. “As you can see [in the memo], I wrote ‘I humbly request’,  I did not write that ‘I order’. “Only the president has powers to order, but as leader of this municipality and after experiencing the growing number of Covid-19 cases, as a responsible leader I have the right to work in line with the president’s declaration and ensure that we flatten the curve and limit the transmission of the virus.” In the memo, Mlombile-Cingo said all businesses, including petrol stations, were to close by 10am on Friday and remain so on Saturday and Sunday, and only reopen on Monday. She wrote: “I, Cllr Nomvuzo Mlombile-Cingo on behalf of Port St Johns Municipality, under the circumstances, humbly request that all businesses, transport, garages [garages will only cater for emergency services], stop trading as from the 17th April 2020 at 10am to the 19th April 2020. Trading will commence on Monday the 20th April 2020. We also request that private vehicles and everybody remain at home.” When the memo reached residents, there was confusion and anger in some quarters, which  prompted Mlombile-Cingo to make an about-turn. “People can go to town to access essential needs as per Covid-19 regulations, just disregard my request. “As it was a request, I could sense it was not welcomed and there is therefore no need to go ahead with it as there were in fact some loopholes,” she said. She said she was no less concerned about the situation in Port St Johns. “People are not observing lockdown in PSJ. “Despite the lockdown, there continues to be an influx of people into PSJ every day. Most say to buy groceries or be seeking medical attention. “I just wanted people to at least sacrifice this weekend for the sake of all us, but this has not worked,” said Mlombile-Cingo. Next week would be even more difficult to handle, she said. Teachers will be paid and more than 1,500 EPWP workers will flock to town because they will have been paid. “On the 25th, municipal workers will be paid. “Remember that we already have six cases of Covid-19 in our area and also now one of the funeral parlour employees has been found positive. “They all attended the March 21 funeral in Majola but only knew abut their results last week. “How many people have they come into contact with since March 21? This is very worrying,” said Mlombile-Cingo. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here