Buffalo City metro municipality officials shut down the Mdantsane City shopping mall from Friday afternoon to Saturday morning amid concerns over lax application of Covid-198 lockdown measures when shoppers flocked to the mall ahead of the long weekend. BCM spokesman Samkelo Ngwenya confirmed the action in a statement on Sunday. The municipality had to close down the mall at 2.15pm on Friday, “after receiving complaints of overcrowding.” Ngwenya said. After mall management presented a “safety action plan” to municipal officials at a meeting at 8am on Saturday, the municipality agreed to reopen the mall and shoppers were allowed in at 9am. Safety measures include controls for mall entrances and exits, posting additional security personnel, allowing limited numbers of customers into the mall, and demarcating seating areas. Security staff allowed 90 people at a time to move to various seating areas demarcated throughout the mall. From there, staff allowed 50 customers at a time to access various stores and banks or automated teller machines. The taxi rank inside the mall was closed. Ngwenya said the safety plan worked well to ensure that social distancing was enforced. “Customers could see we were all taking this seriously.” The municipal action came after “several complaints” about businesses “compromising on social distancing and hygiene practices”. Ngwenya said the municipal team overseeing the implementation of the Disaster Management Act alongside the SA Police Services included the disaster management unit, health and fire services, and traffic and law enforcement officials. Apart from Mdantsane Mall, municipal officials had also visited other stores within BCM. The metro had also noted concerns on social media about overcrowding in King William’s Town shops. The city called on businesses to adhere to the strict social distancing regulations in place and to put in place action plans for crowd control, Ngwenya said. He said businesses which would be allowed to operate once the lockdown restrictions are eased, must “study and follow the regulations carefully”. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.