Armed with masks, gloves, hand sanitiser and books,  Hudson Park Primary teachers started the school week off by giving out work packs to parents on Tuesday.Covering maths, English, Afrikaans, Xhosa and life skills subjects, the packs include work books, worksheets, reading books and various activities in an effort to make home school a little easier on parents during the extended lockdown period.Hudson Park Primary foundation phase head Robin Heaton said: “At the end of the last term we put together these work packs in case the lockdown was extended so that children could carry on working in their books at home.”Heaton said while learning via online platforms was taking place,  work packs were a way of  “levelling the playing fields.”“We realise that not everyone has access to a laptop or has Wi-Fi and data available to them, so this is a way to help those parents ensure their children can still get some learning done while being at home.” Handing out packs through car windows, teachers had their hands full at the Hudson "drive-through".“I was nervous about whether it would work, but its been very successful. Parents had strict instructions to come wearing masks and gloves and so did the teachers.“Only a certain number  of cars were let in at a time and we've been passing the packs to parents through their car windows,” Heaton said. She said those who did not collect the packs would not miss out as all worksheets and activities would still be sent to parents' phones.“There are guidelines on the packs for the different subjects and activities and its very easy to follow for parents, but all our worksheets and instructions will still be communicated via Whatsapp. “We've handed out packs to Grade R parents up to Grade 2. The Grade 3 classes sorted everything out at the end of last term and from Grade 4 the children all have their own iPads so all the work is done through those,” Heaton said.Trish Bale, a parent of a Grade 2 pupil, said: “Its really phenomenal. Its been difficult as a parent, I think we're all thinking, what next, what else can we do? So it's great to be given these packs. I think we're very privileged to be in this position and have teachers that care so much for our kids. They've really gone out of their way to help.” MadeleineC@dispatch.co.za In the public interest, none of our coronavirus news coverage will be behind our paywall. It is available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.