It seems  long-serving Border youth coach Devril Boucher is relishing his new role of nurturing talent for the Pumas with no regrets as he  settles into life in the northern province. Boucher, 55, left the Border Rugby Union in 2016 after serving for 17 years as both player and coach in the youth structures. “Appels”, as he is affectionately known in  rugby circle due to his big hands, is ranked as the most successful under-19 coach at Border, which produced future Springboks such as Lukhanyo Am, Bjorn Basson and Lwazi Mvovo. He was  assistant backline and skills coach for the Border Bulldogs before surfacing at Mpumalanga Rugby Union as a development manager, overseeing talent who might turn  out for the Pumas and possibly  one day wear the green and gold. Now based in Nelspruit, Boucher said a change of scenery was inevitable after a string of bad results  during his tenure in management prompted him to think of another destination. “The move was motivated when I decided a change would be good since things didn’t go well with me in the Bulldogs management. As a former Bulldogs player, it was always my desire to get involved in coaching, which I did enjoy a lot,” he said. “The move to Mpumalanga was very good for me and the timing was perfect,” he added. A move to the north is a step up the ladder for Boucher as he says the differences between the two unions are vast and evident. “Rugby-wise the Pumas are very professional. Hard work is the order of the day and no player or management is bigger than the game,” he said. “I have a lot of respect for my employers at  Mpumalanga Rugby Union as we are all treated equally.” His new role is to develop previously disadvantaged school rugby, a move the SA Rugby Union approves of to tackle the issue of inequality in the sport. “At first it was a big challenge geographically, but now I’m well known in all the different districts. We are performing a lot better than before at the schools winter and summer games and the growth is absolutely visible,” he said. Former Border team manager David Ruiters, a close friend, is the one responsible for Boucher’s move to the Pumas. Ruiters, who has worked with Boucher since he started rugby at John Bisseker High School, said “Appels” would have been a successful coach  at Border. “But the problem was the politics at Border. I was approached by many unions due to my close relationship with him,” said Ruiters. According to Ruiters, Boucher turned down lucrative offers from unions such as Boland, Lions, Cheetahs, Bulls and Griquas before settling in at the Pumas. Border administrator Monde Tabatha congratulated Boucher and described him as an “astute coach with a firm hand  on his charges”. “He is  well liked by players and by his peers. We have no doubt that he will bring to Mpumalanga an admirable coaching tool kit,” said Tabata. Despite his involvement  in the growth of rugby in Mpumalanga, Boucher’s dream, according to Ruiters, is to return to the Eastern Cape and start a rugby academy. “His dream is to return to the province where it all  began to start a rugby academy at United Rugby Football Club with  facilities  that have big potential to serve the surrounding disadvantaged communities like Parkside, Buffalo Flats, Eziphunzana, Duncan Village and Scenery Park,” he said.