Development foundations and philanthropic organisations should play an indispensable role in the national response to the Covid-19 outbreak. They must also continue to pay a role in the rebuilding of communities in the aftermath of the pandemic. Covid-19 is placing extraordinary strains on health systems and the economies  of countries across the globe. Despite the major advances in the management of infectious diseases  made in recent decades, this outbreak has laid bare our collective vulnerability to the impact of a rampant disease. It is in this environment  that the co-operation between the public and private sectors, as well as broader civil society, has become essential. As developmental organisations we should not attempt to duplicate what the public sector is doing in terms of prevention or treatment. Neither should we step on the toes of major corporations or global charities who are launching high-profile campaigns. The Eskom Development Foundation has been active for more than three decades in initiatives that benefit grassroots communities across a spectrum of activities, from healthcare to education,  the environment  and support for emerging entrepreneurs. Through our strong community ties, we are in a prime position to improve communication between healthcare providers and communities. We can emphasise the importance of essential preventive measures such as handwashing, personal hygiene and social distancing which can limit the spread of the virus. Covid-19 will definitely be with us for months to come. Without a doubt, the immediate focus must be on containment, medical interventions and the mobilisation of society to overcome the adversity. But we must already have a much longer-term perspective. We should already be planning for what we want to achieve once the threat has subsided and our country returns to some semblance of normality. Long-term thinking will be required to restore the economic damage already caused by Covid-19. Small businesses will have to  rebuild from scratch, supply chains will have to be re-established and entrepreneurs will need to find new and innovative opportunities to create jobs in a post-Covid-19 society. - Cecil Ramonotsi is the CEO of the Eskom Development Foundation.