Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize announced on Wednesday evening that there were now 2,506 cases of Covid-19 across SA. He also announced seven additional deaths, taking the total across SA to 34. MutliChoice, in partnership with football clubs Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs, announced on Wednesday was that it was donating items of protective equipment, including masks, gloves, wipes, and shoe covers to frontline healthcare workers, police and the military. This included 100,000 N95 masks, 350,000 surgical masks, 100,000 gloves, 10,000 protective overalls and 10,000 wipes, and 100,000 shoe covers. The British government on Wednesday dismissed a TV presenter's claim that there could be a link between 5G technology and coronavirus as "complete nonsense". The 5G conspiracy theory, spread widely on social media, has already led to a new telecoms mast being set alight in Ireland at the weekend. Experts have poured scorn on the claim, saying 5G is based on radio frequency and is not related to the viral outbreak. But Eamonn Holmes, who presents ITV's This Morning show, said they were dismissing the theory "when they don't know it's not true". The Democratic Republic of the Congo's health authorities have appealed for maximum effort to avoid “the worst” impact of an expected peak in coronavirus cases in the capital Kinshasa next month. The pandemic in the capital city and province “is entering an exponential phase,” the country's Covid-19 watchdog said in a report seen by AFP on Wednesday. If the warranty on your laptop, washing machine or fridge expires during the extended lockdown, will the supplier be obliged to honour it when it’s business as usual? Technically no, but consumer goods and services ombudsman (CGSO) Magauta Mphahlele is urging suppliers to “take a humane and reasonable approach”. In an effort to salvage the academic year amid the coronavirus pandemic, universities across SA are preparing to switch to remote online learning. The ANC has distanced itself from face masks bearing the party's emblem and called on those producing them to stop. Deputy secretary Jessie Duarte on Wednesday appealed to party members and manufacturers to “stop abusing the ANC emblem”. Billionaire and philanthropist Bill Gates has weighed in on US President Donald Trump's decision to temporarily suspend US funding for the World Health Organisation. The Microsoft founder said the halting of funds during the coronavirus pandemic was “as dangerous as it sounds”. Though the tweet did not name Trump, Gates said the world needed the WHO now more than ever. Top executives at MTN Group have pledged nearly a third of their salaries and fees for the next three months to finance a R40m emergency fund for staff affected by the coronavirus crisis. The donations by the telecoms group's chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer and other directors announced on Wednesday are part of a broader R250m relief effort to tackle the coronavirus outbreak across its 21 markets. Forty-three citizens stranded in Egypt, whose flight home on Tuesday was abruptly cancelled after they paid R7,000 each, now face a whopping bill to charter a flight to Casablanca, Morocco, to get back to SA. However, they have expressed concern about the exorbitant amount it would cost for them, as a group, to charter the flight — about $47,000 (R871,693) plus $52 (R964) per person in taxes for passengers. We still don’t know how Covid-19 kills us, and that raises a big red flag for doctors trying to treat critically-ill patients. Online science publication Nature says that scientists are not sure “whether the virus itself” is what kills us, or whether our immune system’s response is so strong that it “ultimately overwhelms the patient’s organs”. China said it was "seriously concerned" about the US decision to suspend funding for the World Health Organisation, and urged Washington to fulfill its obligations during the coronavirus crisis. President Donald Trump on Tuesday accused the Geneva-based body of putting political correctness above life-saving measures as he ordered the funding freeze for "mismanaging" the pandemic. While distributing food parcels to hungry residents affected by the coronavirus lockdown in Alexandra, Johannesburg mayor Geoff Makhubo found 19 children and one adult crammed into a two-room dwelling in the informal settlement. Worried about a "coronavirus divorce"? An enterprising Japanese short-term rental firm is marketing its empty apartments as a way for stressed couples to get some time apart during the virus lockdown. "Please consult with us before thinking about 'coronavirus divorce'," the Tokyo-based Kasoku urges customers, offering its Airbnb-like fully-furnished units as "temporary shelters" for people to escape the family, whether to work or just get some peace and quiet. This year's Vodacom Durban July has been moved to a new date, organisers confirmed on Wednesday. The horse racing extravaganza, which was scheduled to take place on July 4, has been moved to July 25 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. More than two million cases of the new coronavirus have been officially registered around the world, half of them in Europe, according to a tally compiled by AFP at 10am GMT on Wednesday based on official sources. The DA's public representatives will contribute R1.5m to the Solidarity Fund set up to mitigate the economic impact of Covid-19. The party said on Wednesday its federal executive had resolved to make the donation to help small businesses in distress as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. "Notwithstanding this overall contribution, DA public representatives are at liberty to make any additional financial contributions as individuals if they wish to do so," said party spokesperson Solly Malatsi. In a statement, the Shoprite Group confirmed that the store was closed. “The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) and Department of Health were informed. The store was closed immediately and a professional decontamination company has been brought in to sanitise and deep clean.” In a legal letter of demand sent to President Cyril Ramaphosa, the family of Collin Khosa has explained in detail what happened when he died in Alexandra on Good Friday. Khosa was allegedly killed by defence force (SANDF) soldiers in the township, north of Johannesburg. “Preliminary medical opinion is that the cause of death is directly related to the assault by the members of the SANDF,” read the letter of demand. Of the 909 people who have tested positive for the coronavirus in Gauteng, 62 have needed to be hospitalised, the provincial health department said on Wednesday. “We are encouraged by the fact that most cases have not needed hospitalisation. Out of the people who were confirmed positive there are 399 recoveries in the province,” said a statement from the office of health MEC Bandile Masuku. More than one million cases of the coronavirus have been detected in Europe, just over half the global total, according to a tally compiled by AFP from official sources at 0830 GMT Wednesday. With at least 1,003,284 cases, including 84,465 deaths, Europe is the worst hit continent. Globally, 1,991,019 COVID-19 infections and 125,955 deaths have been registered. The tallies, using data collected by AFP from national authorities and information from the World Health Organization (WHO), probably reflect only a fraction of the actual number of infections. Many countries are testing only the most serious cases. AFP The European Union will host an online conference on May 4 for governments and organisations to pledge money to support the search for a vaccine to the novel coronavirus, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday. "To support this global initiative, funding is needed," Von der Leyen told a joint news conference with European Council President Charles Michel. "I hope that countries and organisations all over the world will respond to this call," she said. Reuters Four people in the military community have tested positive for the coronavirus, the surgeon-general of the SA National Defence Force said on Wednesday. The SANDF said those who had tested positive were not soldiers deployed to help in the coronavirus lockdown operations but had links to the defence force. With spiraling numbers of global confirmed Covid-19 cases, social distancing and quarantine measures have been instituted across much of the world, with stay-at-home orders implemented by most governments. Global coronavirus cases are approaching 2 million, with more than 126,000 deaths . Six South Africans living on different continents amid the pandemic, share their experiences of what lockdown is like away from home. Contentious lobby group AfriForum has hauled the department of tourism to court in an urgent bid to overturn race criteria which determine which businesses score state-sponsored Covid-19 relief bailouts. At the heart of the looming legal battle is the R200m Tourism Relief Fund, announced by minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane as a buffer for businesses in the tourism sector which have been severely affected by the national lockdown. The United States may need to endure social distancing measures adopted during the coronavirus outbreak until 2022, according to researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health. The study comes as more than 2,200 people died in the United States from the outbreak on Tuesday, a record, according to a Reuters tally, even as the country debated how to reopen its economy. The overall death toll in the US from the virus stands at more than 28,300 as of Tuesday. Gauteng Premier David Makhura says alcohol sales should be regulated even after the lockdown comes to an end. Briefing the media on Tuesday during his visit to a Covid-19 food bank storage in Ekurhuleni, Pretoria, Makhura said Gauteng would apply strict measures to deal with people who consumed alcohol and misbehaved. Twenty days into lockdown and South Africans are reflecting on the lessons the it has taught them this far. The world will need more than one Covid-19 vaccine so drug companies must partner in the race to develop the weapons to fight the novel coronavirus, GlaxoSmithKline Chief Executive Officer Emma Walmsley said on Wednesday. GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Sanofi SA said on Tuesday they would develop a vaccine to fight the fast-spreading coronavirus. The drugmakers said they expect to start clinical trials for the vaccine in the second half of this year. If successful, the vaccine would be available in the second half of 2021. A Dis-Chem pharmacy at the Blubird Shopping Centre in Johannesburg has been closed after a staff member tested positive for Covid-19. Dis-Chem's national clinic manager, Lizeth Kruger, said in a statement that a staff member had tested positive and had been sent home to self-isolate and seek medical care, if necessary. “The store was closed [Tuesday] and a professional cleaning service, complete with staff in hazmat suits, has been brought in to thoroughly deep clean the whole shop. The store will reopen on Friday,” said the statement. A 99-year-old World War II veteran in Brazil was released from hospital with military honors Tuesday after recovering from the coronavirus. Second Lieutenant Ermando Piveta, who served in the Brazilian artillery in Africa during the Second World War, was brought out of Brasilia's Armed Forces Hospital to trumpet music and applause. Wearing an army-green side cap, he raised his arms in the air as he left after eight days as a patient. The United States recorded 2,228 deaths related to the coronavirus pandemic over the past 24 hours, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University as of 8:30 pm Tuesday (0030 GMT Wednesday). The number of fatalities was a sharp increase after two days in decline. The outbreak has now claimed the lives of at least 25,757 people in the US, the most of any country.  AFP Netcare Kingsway Hospital in Amanzimtoti, south of Durban, stopped admitting new patients on Tuesday after it emerged that staff had tested positive for Covid-19. A hospital receptionist told TimesLIVE on Wednesday morning that the hospital was on divert. “Unfortunately, we are not admitting new patients at the moment,” she said. National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) provincial secretary Ayanda Zulu confirmed that the trauma unit had been closed on Tuesday after a patient and staff tested positive. The total number of infections in the Eastern Cape was 175 on Tuesday afternoon. Of these,  53 inmates and 24 correctional services officials in the province have tested positive for the virus. The East London Correctional Centre, where the virus has spread rapidly, has the bulk of the correctional services cases  — 76. Besides the St Albans case and those at the East London prison, a correctional services official at the department’s head office in Pretoria has also tested positive. Correctional Services spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said 34 officials at St Albans had already been placed in quarantine Donald Trump ordered a freeze on funding for the World Health Organization for "mismanaging" the coronavirus crisis, as world leaders weighed easing lockdowns that threaten to tip the global economy into a second Great Depression. The death toll from the pandemic has topped 125,000, with nearly two million people infected by the disease that has upended society and changed lives for billions around the globe confined to their homes. Across the planet, leaders are agonising over when to lift lockdown measures to jump-start devastated economies but still avoid a second wave of infections. It’s safe to handle packaged goods during the coronavirus outbreak, an industry body says. And it cites some weighty research to back this up. Several people were arrested and stores looted after protests over expected food parcel deliveries at Mitchells Plain in Cape Town. Police spokesperson Brig Novela Potelwa said residents from Tafelsig took to the streets on Tuesday after allegedly being promised food parcels. Several roads were barricaded with burning tyres and rocks. Intensive care specialists at Tygerberg Hospital in Cape Town have a new infection-resistant “colleague” helping them do ward rounds on Covid-19 patients. That colleague is a robot named Quintin, who stands as an example of how the pandemic has brought ingenuity and collaboration to the fore. The robot, made by Double Robotics, has been employed to help specialists do “virtual” ward rounds if they are unable to be present — even from home. Post the lockdown, there will be two types of people: those who achieved their fitness goals and those who will rush to the gym to shed all the weight gained from indulging in their favourite foods and binge-watching shows on Netflix. Since the lockdown started on March 26, South Africans have adopted different approaches as some continue to work hard on their fitness while others are spending more time in the kitchen making their favourite treats. Take our poll and let us know if you are keeping fit or not during this lockdown. Contentious lobby group AfriForum has hauled the department of tourism to court in an urgent bid to overturn race criteria which determine which businesses score state-sponsored Covid-19 relief bailouts. At the heart of the looming legal battle is the R200m Tourism Relief Fund, announced by minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane as a buffer for businesses in the tourism sector which have been severely affected by the national lockdown.