US deaths from the novel coronavirus topped 24,000 on Tuesday, according to a Reuters tally, as officials debated how to reopen the economy without reigniting the outbreak. The US, with the world's third-largest population, has recorded more fatalities from Covid-19 than any other country. There were a total of nearly 583,000 US cases with nearly 2-million reported cases globally. On Monday, the US reported about 1,500 new fatalities, far below last week's running tally of roughly 2,000 deaths every 24 hours, according to a Reuters tally. US deaths exceeded 24,400 on Tuesday with many states yet to report. - Reuters A 99-year-old war veteran has raised more than 2 million pounds (R45m) for British health workers by attempting to walk the length of his garden one hundred times before his 100th birthday later this month. Retired captain Tom Moore, who has used a walker to move around since breaking his hip, said he was grateful to the National Health Service (NHS) for the treatment he received in the past and wanted to do something in return. Britain's state-funded NHS is under severe strain as it treats large numbers of people suffering from Covid-19. The death toll from Covid-19 in British hospitals reached 11,329 on Monday, the fifth highest globally. - Reuters Ekurhuleni mayor Mzwandile Masina on Tuesday launched a food bank to provide relief to the poor during the Covid-19 outbreak. Masina said the food bank would ensure that no resident in the city goes to bed hungry because of the coronavirus. He called on the privileged to make donations. Just how severely does Covid-19 affect health workers? This is a key question in a joint study between the Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) and the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s medical school. The two institutions are seeking to understand how the virus is affecting South African health workers, both physically and emotionally. President Yoweri Museveni on Tuesday extended Uganda's initial 14-day lockdown by an extra three weeks, until May 5, as part of efforts to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Uganda and Rwanda have imposed a total lockdown in their fight against Covid-19, in East Africa's most stringent response to the infection. Other countries in the region have preferred to ban or impose restrictions and closures only on sectors with the greatest potential to spread the virus like air and other travel, schools and public gatherings. - Reuters Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Tuesday threatened 20 years in jail to the author of a statement purporting to bear his signature that said the lockdown to contain the coronavirus outbreak had been extended. Mnangagwa, who was speaking at his farm after touring Gweru city in central Zimbabwe, told state broadcaster ZBC the statement, which circulated on social media last week and was immediately denied by the government, was fake. After a two week wait, a South African who was stranded in Ghana was finally able to touch down in Mzansi. Calvin Jacobs, from Morningside, Durban, is a project manager on a gas pipeline in Takoradi, 200km east of Accra. He had been stranded in Ghana as the country closed its airports 12 hours before he was meant to fly back home. On Monday, he arrived in Johannesburg with about 60 other South Africans who work in Ghana following a repatriation process facilitated by the department of international relations and co-operation. The number of inmates to test positive for Covid-19 at the East London prison has shot up to 53. The correctional services department has confirmed a huge spike in infected inmates and officials. It had that the number of cases at the correctional centre had increased by 49 in just two days. After reports that those infected with Covid-19 have experienced a loss of taste and smell, new US research has found evidence that individuals who lose these two senses are 10 times more likely to be infected with the virus. Carried out by researchers at UC San Diego Health, the new study looked at survey responses from 262 patients reporting flu-like symptoms, 59 of whom had tested positive for Covid-19 and 203 who had tested negative. President Cyril Ramaphosa has asked the Gauteng Liquor Forum to give him until Friday to fully respond to its letter demanding the lifting or changes to regulations banning alcohol sales under lockdown rules in SA. In a letter addressed to the forum's legal representative Eric Mabuza, the presidency said said it had noted concerns expressed by the forum. Two British citizens who were charged with entering the country illegally from Swaziland are being tested for Covid-19. The two men, whose identities are known to TimesLIVE, were set to appear in the Durban magistrate's court on Tuesday. The men, aged 38 and 41, were arrested at a guesthouse in Umbilo, Durban, on Sunday after they ran away from police at the Swaziland border. They were charged with contravening the Immigration and Disaster Management Acts. A collaboration between South African NGOs is one of the first in the world to create a Covid-19 information platform for pregnant women and mothers as they grapple with so many unknowns during the pandemic. Focusing on physical and mental health, they provide expert input on what many mothers are thinking about, such as the safety of pregnancy during the pandemic, how to protect a newborn from Covid-19 and ways to cope with stress. There were nearly 150 new Covid-19 cases announced for SA on Tuesday afternoon. In a statement, health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize said that there were now 2,415 cases in the country, up from 2,272 announced on Monday evening - a jump of 143 cases. People whose visas to work, study or conduct business in SA expired during the Covid-19 lockdown will not be penalised, home affairs said on Tuesday. This also applies to people who submitted their applications before the lockdown, with the outcome pending. Direct insurer Outsurance on Tuesday announced an across-the-board 15% reduction in its existing car insurance policies for May, joining those of its competitors which “recognise the reduced kilometres travelled and claims frequency during the lockdown”. The request by Impala Platinum for some employees to return to work on Tuesday was disrupted by roadblocks preventing workers reaching the mine. The company issued a notice to employees on Sunday to return to work during the lockdown, saying it had been granted an exemption by the department of mineral resources & energy. But "many" workers could not get to work after being turned back at roadblocks, Implats spokesperson Johan Theron said on Tuesday. Gauteng premier David Makhura said the question of how to regulate alcohol use and sales should be under discussion once the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 has been lifted. Speaking at the opening of the Springs food bank in Ekurhuleni on Tuesday, Makhura said there had been calls for a relaxation on the sale of products banned during the lockdown, including liquor. Makhura said the liquor industry contributed to employment but he said the use of liquor also had social effects. Gauteng health MEC Bandile Masuku remains hopeful the country will overcome the Covid-19 pandemic with limited casualties. “We believe we can overcome, and will overcome with not many casualties,” Masuku said during the handover of personal protective equipment (PPE) in Sandton on Tuesday. A 30-year-old pregnant woman from Roodepoort in Gauteng who contracted Covid-19 has now recovered and is negative. After staying in self-isolation for the prescribed 14 days, Morgan Brink retested for the virus last Thursday. “I am negative,” an elated Brink told TimesLIVE. She was upbeat and active on Tuesday. The vice-chancellor of the University of Johannesburg, Prof Tshilidzi Marwala, has become the latest head in the tertiary sector to pledge 33% of his salary to the Covid-19 Solidarity Fund. In a statement, Marwala said the decision to pledge a third of his salary was “an easy decision to take as the crisis requires leadership and personal sacrifices”. In order to keep hospitals open, the use of medical centres for other reasons needed to be minimised, Professor Glenda Gray said on Monday evening during a discussion on the country's fight against the coronavirus. This includes alcohol-related cases at hospitals. Gray said SA's Medical Research Council will be looking at ways to minimise alcohol-related admissions at hospitals. I’ve spotted a few police vans in my neighbourhood since President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the extension of the lockdown on Thursday last week and while I didn't witness any arrests, it's clear that the authorities are still hard at work. The digital learning initiative, Free Stem Lockdown Digital School,  started over the Easter weekend and is aimed to assist pupils with their studies during the extended lockdown, set until the end of April. “Since lockdown we’re definitely seeing more calls about social isolation and loneliness, people who are not locking down with loved ones or family but doing it by themselves. We’re seeing people’s anxiety a lot more heightened, especially as we’re seeing the cases increase,” Chambers says. As SA’s Covid-19 death toll hits 25, municipalities are preparing emergency cemeteries. Not being able to get out earn an income has made life a living hell for so many.