To wear a mask or not to wear a mask? That has been the big debate as the world battles the spread of the feared  Covid-19 which has infected more than one million and killed at least 53,000 to date, globally. While health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has been advocating for citizens to wear face masks, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has discouraged it, saying only doctors and nurses should wear them. However, some South Africans have heeded Mkhize’s call, with one East London man taking it a step further and wearing a relative’s panties instead. Brian Potter stunned shoppers at a retail store in Beacon Bay when he confidently walked into the popular outlet with pink and black panties as his makeshift mask. His whole face was covered, with only his eyes  visible as he took no chance against the pandemic. “I do not have a mask but I saw a video of somebody wearing his wife’s underwear. I am also on lockdown and I grabbed a pair of panties at home and it works very well. “It is good to wear masks and to protect other people. It is something we can all do for the bigger cause,” he told the Daily Dispatch on Friday. How the virus is passed from one person to another has become one of the most divisive debates on social media platforms. But, speaking at a press conference in Durban this week, Mkhize said: “There is no question that the use of masks is one of the best ways of preventing the spread of infection. We recommend them — particularly where people have any cough or any symptoms, or in a situation where social distancing is a bit difficult.” East London-based anaesthetist Dr Dr Nils von Delft agreed with Mkhize. He wrote on the #IcanHelpBuffaloCity Facebook page that: “At this point, we should all be acting as if we all have the virus, and as if everyone else has the virus. In this way we will protect ourselves and protect others.” However the  WHO said on its website  a mask should only be worn by those who had tested positive for the coronavirus, or those looking after people who have the virus. No definitive answer has been given on the big mask debate as different countries are divided on whether people should wear face coverings or not. However, more countries appear to be moving towards encouraging the use of face masks. Jade  Fielding, an SA teacher based in Italy, the epicentre of pandemic in Europe, told the Dispatch that people needed to learn how to use masks. “You don’t touch your face when removing a mask, it defeats the purpose. Most people are more worried about breathing it in than listening to what professionals have said: ‘masks don’t make a difference if you’re still touching your face’,” she said. — Additional reporting by TimesLIVE In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.