Two doctors have  created a web-based app for people  to establish whether they should be tested for the coronavirus. The CoronaFighter application was developed within the space of a week  by SA doctors Jarrad van Zuydam and  Rick Diesel in collaboration with teams from digital agencies Sigma Digital, Lead Robot, Civitas Founder Network and Knife Capital’s Grindstone. Accessible on www.testforcovid.co.za and social media platforms, including Twitter and Facebook, the app requires a user to sign in with their e-mail address, phone number or Google account, and to answer questionnaires on medical and travel history. The easy-to-use interface then tells the person whether they should get tested for the virus. The app also allows people to track their symptoms through a simplified automated self-monitoring process. Van Zuydam told  DispatchLIVE on Tuesday that the app was developed on  National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) guidelines. “During this uncertain time, it is all too easy to feel powerless in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. “Now, more than ever, many of us are looking for a way to educate ourselves with accurate information, soothe our anxiety and, most importantly,  monitor our health. “The app was designed to collect data to provide medical authorities with reactive feedback on where Covid-19 hotspots are, and aids in providing crucial data so that medical resources can be used in the most efficient way possible,” Van Zuydam said. CoronaFighter reduces pressure on testing points and protects its users from the risk of infection presented by the testing centres themselves, Van Zuydam said. “Due to Covid-19’s tendency to present symptoms slowly and be passed along incredibly easily, we should start self-monitoring as soon as possible. “The health status and symptoms of patients with coronavirus also change over time, and pre-testing will ensure fewer false negative tests. “By gathering updated information on a daily basis, officials will be able to identify patterns in symptom development that can lead to earlier diagnosis and limit further spread,” he said. More than 35  doctors, software engineers, creatives and marketers worked to create CoronaFighter in the space of a week. Zuydam said the main challenge in creating the app was translating the guidelines to be better understood by users. In the public interest, none of our coronavirus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.