An arson inquiry has been opened at the Peddie police station after a car belonging to a senior ANC councillor at Ngqushwa municipality was doused with petrol and allegedly nearly set alight on Monday night. PR councillor Sanga Maneli, the  municipality's corporate services portfolio committee head, was recently  appointed during a chaotic Ngqushwa municipality council meeting to chair an ad hoc committee investigating allegations of state vehicle and fuel abuse against the mayor, Mnikelo Siwisa. Maneli said on Tuesday the probe against Siwisa “could be related” to the attempted torching of his  Volkswagen Polo  at his New Creation village home. Provincial police spokesperson Captain Khaya Tonjeni  confirmed police were investigating the matter. “Peddie police have indeed opened an inquiry on this matter. No suspects arrested yet,  but investigation continues. “Anyone with information that can result in the arrest of suspects and speedy finalisation of this case is requested to share that information anonymously with the investigation officer, Captain Mzukisi Tolosi on 082-416-8343. “All correspondence will be treated as confidential,” Tonjeni said. Speaking to DispatchLIVE on Tuesday, Maneli said he stopped the arsonist in his tracks at around 8.30pm on Monday after he  heard footsteps outside his home. “After hearing the footsteps, I peeped through my home window and saw someone wearing a brown jacket and a navy wool hat. “I immediately activated my car immobiliser and when it made that click sound, he knew that someone was watching him from the window. He just banged on that house window with his hand and quickly dashed off on foot. “I then called the police before going outside to see what was happening. It is then that I smelled a strong petrol stench and discovered that my car had been doused with petrol, showing that the intruder was about to set it alight,” Maneli said. He said when police arrived, the area was combed for fingerprints by forensic investigators, who later discovered an empty two-litre container smelling of petrol. Maneli, who said he now feared for his life and the safety of his family, suspects  the attempt has “something to do” with the work he is doing in council. He reported the incident to  ANC Amathole regional secretary Teris Ntutu and to the party's provincial leadership. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi could not be reached for comment on Tuesday. Ntutu  said they were aware of the incident. “Yes, the matter was reported on Monday evening and we quickly intervened by ensuring our councillor was protected as we could not take such an incident for granted. “He is a senior councillor in that municipality and this is a high-profile case, hence we are happy  with the response of our law enforcement agencies, which sent a team to quickly investigate this. “We now pin our hopes on such agencies for them to  get to the bottom of this and bring the culprit or culprits to book,” said Ntutu. Asked about Maneli's fear that the incident could be related to his council work, Ntutu said: “As the organisation we cannot assume it. But it is difficult not to draw such inferences. Our hope is that the police will get a breakthrough on this because it cannot be right that people are threatened with such incidents for doing what is required of them by their councils, for doing their jobs.” Ntutu, who said  the incident could be politically motivated, called on all political leaders in the area to “cease fire as such acts can cascade down to their followers, resulting in violent chaos in our municipalities”.