There will be no room for slackers and Isuzu Southern Kings players must not treat the Covid-19 lockdown as a holiday, Kings forward Bobby de Wee said. With the Guinness PRO14 season now postponed indefinitely, the players have been given strict individual programmes to complete by their coaches. “Our coaches have constantly reiterated  that this is not to be considered a holiday,” De Wee said. “They have given us certain programmes with regards to fitness and gym work in the off time. “It does get a bit difficult with all gyms being closed now during the lockdown. “But I must commend our strength and conditioning coach Nadus  Nieuwoudt because he took the initiative and gave us some cool alternatives. “We have been very fortunate that Nadus as well as head coach Robbi Kempson have been very hands on from day one of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I must say, now we are training individually at home, I have been missing my mates on the training ground quite a lot. “Even though a lot of us do speak on a daily basis in our WhatsApp groups or via video call, nothing quite compares to the changeroom banter. “Even just the inside jokes we share on the field or even just working hard and spending day to day with your mates — nothing quite beats it. “I will be very tough on myself with regards to coming out of this lockdown as a better player. “So I do spend a large portion of the day either doing some form of work — either conditioning, strength or speed work. “When I am not doing that I’m either recovering and getting ready for the next session. “Sometimes I just break away to spend some time contacting friends and family.” When he is not busy with his training drills, De Wee says he enjoys watching a movie. “I’ve always been a sucker for a good horror or psychological thriller so I have got into watching Scream, the series on Netflix which brings a lot of excitement. “I’m also a sucker for a good conspiracy theory. “So exploring different topics and the theories different people have around them has been captivating me.” De Wee has endured long injury layoffs before, but lockdown is proving to be a different challenge. “Whenever I’ve had a layoff of this length its been due to injury, and then the core focus was more rehabilitation and there was always a gym available. “But with the severity of the situation we are faced with gyms have had to close. “So I have had to make alternative arrangements such as buying weights and equipment I can use at home.” Because international cross-border travel is out of the question, SA Rugby chiefs are exploring the possibility of an internal competition when the Covid-19 threat lifts. If a mooted SA derby league comes to fruition, PRO14 sides the Kings and Cheetahs could be facing Super Rugby rivals the Bulls, Sharks, Lions and Stormers. In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.