Awaiting trial prisoners at the East London correctional centre in West Bank have embarked on a hunger strike in a bid to be force the correctional services department to release them early. They fear they will contract the coronavirus in overcrowded cells. The protest, which is also occurring in other parts of the country, takes the form of skipping some meals and refusing to take part in the daily roll call. The action is mostly by low-risk prisoners, including those who were arrested for non-violent crimes, and first-time offenders. One prisoner, who is awaiting trial for shoplifting, said the conditions in prison were unhygienic and overcrowded, and prison officials were not adhering to lockdown regulations of wearing gloves and masks. He said they were also angered by the poor food quality in the facility. With so many corrections officers and inmates testing positive at the prison, they fear it is only a matter of time before they are also infected with Covid-19. On Monday, chaos erupted at the Baviaanspoort Maximum Prison in Roodeplaat, Gauteng where prisoners ransacked their cells in protest. An East London prisoner said: “We are 50  instead of 30 in the cells. This is risky and can lead to contracting the coronavirus. We ask that those who are non-violent are released on certain conditions, even if it means they will be brought back to prison when things are normal again. If we continue like this we are going to die here like flies. “The warders are not wearing any of the protective clothing and this poses a risk to us. We are also human beings and deserve to be treated with care.” Another prisoner said the inmates  barricaded the doors of the cells when it was time to count them in the morning. “Overcrowding makes it impossible to maintain physical distancing. Three people are sleeping on a single mattress.” Without responding to specific questions sent by Dispatch,  correctional services spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo said the number of cases in its centres across the country had increased by nine officials, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 94. Nxumalo said three new cases were recorded in Kutama Sinthumule Private Facility in Limpopo,  four in Warmbokveld in the Western Cape and two in Worcester in the Western Cape. East London has also recorded two new cases. Screening of officials was continuing to prevent possible transmissions, said Nxumalo. "It remains critical for all our officials to be vigilant in their activities outside working hours, and they must adhere to preventive measures, including physical distancing,” he said. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.