A Makhanda couple who completed their respective Two Ocean ultra-marathon and half-marathon in their garden have raised R64,000 to assist vulnerable people affected by the Covid-19 lockdown. Sally and Colin Price-Smith, both  58, were in good spirits after their garden variety Two Oceans on Saturday. Sally completed the 56km full ultra-marathon in 7:41 and Colin his 21.1km in 3:30 — both admirable times considering the tightness of the turns and the dull predictability of repeated laps. “We made it ... just. Though with all the sharp turns, hilly driveway and having to negotiate around a pool it took us a bit longer than anticipated. “We will not be going ‘left’ again for a while,”  the couple quipped. They dubbed their marathon the “Two Streets Marathon” as their beautiful, historic Makhanda home is bordered by a street on either side. Colin described the weather as perfect. “The morning was cool and clear with a stunning full moon. “Sally started  — to the tune of the SA national anthem — at 6.10am to complete her 311 laps equating to 56km in 7:41 and I at 6.50am in beautiful sunshine to complete my 21.1km in 3:30.” Each loop was measured at 0.18km and was run in sets of five. They had measured five up laps, five down laps and five ‘Chappies’ laps — a reference to the arduous but beautiful Chapman’s Peak stretch in the real Two Oceans marathon. “We would like to say a massive thank you to all who have so generously contributed to the cause. Amazing! “You have all made a big difference.” Sally said in addition to the R34,600 donated through global fundraising site GivenGain, they had raised more than R16,000 via the Grahamstown Residents’ Association Facebook page and another R10,000 to R12,000  in pledges. “This money will provide emergency relief for the vulnerable people in the Makana community affected by the Covid-19 virus and resulting lockdown.” In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.