The devastation to human lives brought on by the coronavirus outbreak is nothing short of a global tragedy. Emerging markets, SA included, have endured the brunt of asymmetrical pressure on our respective economies, leaving us no option but to explore practical measures to reset our economy. The most crucial step  is to get people back to economic activity. Resuming  activity, in the context of a public health system capable of detecting and responding to new cases,  is vital to restarting our economy. Though considered a leading emerging economy on the African continent, globally we are a developing country and, realistically, we face the same socioeconomic challenges as other emerging markets in our region. This means we need to ensure we are not left behind when the global economy recovers. The  government’s unprecedented R500bn Covid-19 economic stimulus package to mitigate the effects of the pandemic is similar to stimulus packages already effected by developed countries such as the US,  Germany, and the UK. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s interventions, specifically the R100bn that will be set aside to protect and create jobs and the planned R70bn in tax relief measures, will go a long way  to make  sure entrepreneurs survive the tide. However, I believe that more strategic tactics are pertinent to leverage  these interventions to make the SMME sector the bedrock of the South African economy. If there is one thing this pandemic has exposed, it is the basic need to transform our economy from a labour-focused one to one which is SMME orientated. As a labour-intensive economy,  35 days of non-activity, limited capacity and production has further cornered what was already an imprisoned economy in recession. The constraints on key sectors such as mining, textile, and manufacturing have shown that our economy was never positioned to adequately adapt to a complete or partial shutdown. This setting makes an economy structured on the proliferation of SMMEs — that are catalysed to absorb and create employment at a similar scale to the major sectors of this country — a strategy SA should adopt. If we can build our SMMEs up to operate at this level of  capacity and grow the sector to be a substantial GDP contributor, then we could genuinely be on a recovery path and create  a level playing field for businesses in a post-pandemic world. Even though no-one has been spared from the carnage of the coronavirus pandemic, the reality is it has been the small to medium-sized business in specific industries that have demonstrated the agility to continue operating within the regulations of the lockdown, by means of implementing  frameworks such as digitising their services or having their employees work from home. In contrast, the larger, labour-intensive  sectors have been hit the hardest, no doubt with pending retrenchments looming to further deepen economic woes. Entrepreneurship on a large scale and exceptional growth of our SMME sector is  one way of accomplishing a resilient economy. The way we chose to emerge from the economic devastation of the coronavirus presents an opportunity for us to address the mistakes of the Codesa negotiations, which focused so much on the political mechanisms of transitioning political leadership, while neglecting the radical economic transformation needed by our people, then and now. Manzini Zungu is Pacinamix CEO