Premier Oscar Mabuyane came out guns blazing on Friday afternoon accusing some bed and breakfast owners of refusing to have their establishments as quarantine sites, saying that was creating a stigma against those who had tested positive for Covid-19. Mabuyane's statement comes after questions were raised on whether there was no nepotism when transport MEC Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe's daughter's Kwakhanya Tikana's Mioca Lodge was used as a quarantine facility in Cala. A total of 14 people were under quarantine at the facility before they were moved to a local hospital on Friday after DispatchLIVE inquired. Mabuyane called on business owners and residents in general to be patriotic as SA works towards gflattening the curve. “I want to appreciate the willingness of the owner of Mioca BnB to accommodate people that were to be accommodated at their facility for this purpose when some accommodation facilities in the area and in other parts of the province were reportedly not willing to accommodate people that needed accommodation for quarantine and isolation. “We appreciate more the fact they were able to accommodate the people who needed quarantine and isolation at no cost to government until government was able to find an alternative venue for them,” he said, adding that Tikana-Gxothiwe had assured him that she did not own the lodge. Mabuyane said they were worried that some people were refusing to accommodate people who were under quarantine or had to self-isolate. “We are concerned that some communities neighbouring some of these BnBs are protesting the accommodation of individuals for quarantine and isolation at some of the BnBs in the province. “There have been no valid reasons presented by those wanting to prevent accommodation of individuals for quarantine and isolation at these facilities. This makes us to regard this behaviour as an attempt to stigmatise the people accommodated for quarantine and isolation. We condemn any form of stigmatisation of the people infected by the coronavirus and we call on the people of our province to support those who test positive for this virus so that they can recover fully,” he said. “People who are quarantined and isolated will be accommodated at decent and suitable facilities because they are humans whose human rights and dignity must be protected by all of us in government and in society.” In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here