The ANC in the Eastern Cape has called for disciplinary action to be instituted against two Nelson Mandela Bay councillors accused of violating the lockdown regulations. It has called on the municipality and the MEC for co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta), Xolile Nqatha, to discipline the councillors of wards 20 and 29, Morris Ngabase and Vukile Dyele. Ngabase was arrested, fined R5,000 and released on Thursday for  illegally issuing a permit to a taxi driver to enable him to operate during the lockdown. Dyele is accused of convening a public meeting during the lockdown, which also contravenes the regulations. While he was at the Bethelsdorp police station on Thursday, the police were not immediately able to provide an update on their investigation into the allegation against Dyele. Both councillors have denied violating the regulations. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi said he  welcomed the swift action of the law enforcement agencies against the conduct of Ngabase and Dyele. “We call upon the Nelson Mandela Bay Bay municipality and Cogta MEC [Nqatha] to urgently initiate disciplinary proceedings for breach of the code of conduct of councillors as their conduct has brought the government into disrepute.” “We further applaud the leadership of the ANC chief whip [Litho Suka] who was instrumental in ensuring that the ANC members serving in the council are compliant and subjected to the same regulations that all the citizens are supposed to follow.” On Wednesday Suka said he was aware that both councillors had gone to the police but he was still awaiting a written response from them before he could provide detailed comment. “All ANC members and public representatives are expected to display a conduct which is above reproach and must lead by example as they service our communities,” Ngcukayitobi said. “The ANC will institute its disciplinary proceedings against the two councillors for bringing the organisation into disrepute. “The majority of the citizens of both our province and the country have heeded the call of staying at home, and the ANC calls on all South Africans to abide by the lockdown regulations as well as precautionary measures which were announced by the government as part of curbing the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. - HeraldLIVE