We have known from the start of our country’s democratic project that all freedom-loving South Africans would be at risk if we failed to eliminate the injustices of apartheid and established an equitable society. Our country continues to teeter on the brink and, as we battle Covid-19, our situation will become much worse, long before it improves. As we reported this week, many businesses state that any extension of the national lockdown beyond the remaining two weeks will sound the death knell for their operations. Few residents of our province disagree that we  cannot afford the long-term decimation of communities which will result from a longer lockdown. Even in normal times, millions of people — whether working or unemployed — struggle to scrape together enough basic resources to stay alive. They have scant access to decent places to stay or to any of the services that make life safe, manageable and meaningful. The inequalities of our society have caught up with us and the lockdown — resulting in people losing the opportunity to work for food and other essential supplies — has worsened that situation many times. Our government continues to follow global best practice in social and clinical prescripts for curbing the spread of the disease. Mistakes have been made, but this was to be expected. We are encouraged by the newfound responsiveness of cabinet ministers to the concerns raised by the public in respect of the efficacy of some measures, the humaneness of certain regulations and the illegal actions of several security personnel. While we must continue to limit the spread of the virus and the consequences which flow from further transmission, we dare not give up our hold on constitutionality. However, the compliance of many South Africans is questionable and constitutes a risk to the entire fabric of our society. Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has warned that the relatively low rate of transmission is merely the calm before the storm. He is right. And the increased emphasis on testing more people countrywide through mobile facilities and other measures will raise the known number  of infections very rapidly. If you have not yet made a commitment to protecting yourself and others by observing hygiene and social distancing measures, we urge you to start immediately and encourage others within your close circle to do so as well. It is the only way we can avoid a further lockdown. When we have dealt with the Covid-19 threat, we will have a bigger task to address the underlying socioeconomic problems which beset our society. It may never be business as usual ever again. The changes which are being forced on us must have long-term positive consequences for all. In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.