Sidetracker. This is probably the best way to describe anyone trying to distract the world’s attention from fighting the novel coronavirus. Expressing his concerns on the Iraq invasion in 2003, late former president Nelson Mandela said: “What I condemn is one power with a president [George W Bush] who has no foresight, who can’t think properly and wants to plunge the whole world into a holocaust”. Shockingly, in less than two decades we have come full circle, with yet another US president choosing to play games at a time when we are facing a pandemic. On Tuesday Donald Trump announced that he had instructed his administration to halt funding for the WHO because of what he calls mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis. Trump’s announcement has drawn international condemnation and rightly so. Of course, everyone would want to see the WHO held accountable for any of its omissions, but how does Trump justify taking such a drastic measure at the peak of fighting a pandemic that has infected over two million people globally and killed more than 136,000? Will withdrawal of funds result in finding a quick vaccine? Theatrics of this nature are not helpful at all. Neither are they new in US politics. It’s a clear attempt to deflect attention from Trump’s own failures in handling the situation. Instead of focusing on the virus threat, the world is now debating the implications of halting WHO funding. Sadly, we have people on our shores who, like Trump, are bent on diverting our course of action in flattening the curve. Some rogue law enforcers are accused of beating and killing people during their routine patrols; a group of stakeholders in the alcohol value chain is taking the president to court demanding relaxation of laws to allow them to trade; thugs are burning schools while the nation is in lockdown; allegations of food parcels being stolen have surfaced and selfish individuals are trying to score political points by distributing masks with party logos. Now our attention has to turn to dealing with such peripheral issues while the virus is threatening the nation. Could the liquor forum not resort to negotiations? After all this is not a ban but a temporary suspension. Why are we not hearing amplified calls for best ways to deliver education material to the disadvantaged pupils in the rural areas? May all sidetrackers step aside. Our lives are under threat. In the public interest, none of our coronavirus news is behind our paywall and is available free for all to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.