The Eastern Cape department of social development has been accused of neglecting its workers and juveniles at detention centres by not providing them with enough personal protective equipment (PPE). Workers based at two juvenile centres in Bhisho and East London   say the department has delayed supplying them with masks and other protective gear. Eastern Cape children’s rights advocate Petros Majola has also weighed in, saying those in power should never have allowed this to happen. . But the department says it is doing everything in its power to keep officials and juveniles safe, and has provided equipment. Officials who spoke to DispatchLIVE on condition of anonymity this week, fearing they could lose their jobs,  said not having the requisite equipment not only put their own lives at risk, but particularly those of the young offenders. They said  they used public transport to get to and from work, meaning they mixed with many members of the public. One East London official said: “We are facing a situation where we are at risk of contracting this virus. This is a reality as this is growing in the country. Our department is at the forefront of fighting this but they are failing to provide the basic service to their own staff members. “We did get gloves, but not masks, and there are no sanitisers. You look at the security, they have none. The department should also think of providing us with transport so we can stop using taxis just for this period of the lockdown.  We are essential workers. This will help prevent any eventualities.” Another official said  juveniles were not given any protective gear. “This is bad for these young offenders and those who are based at the juvenile centres. Even the security guards have no masks, nothing. They don’t even have sanitisers,” the official said. DispatchLIVE  drove past the East London centre and saw a number of staff members without any protective gear. Juveniles were also playing soccer on the sports ground. None were wearing masks. DispatchLIVE reported this week that inmates at the Mdantsane prison were also playing football in the prison yard. No social distancing was practised. Two videos of the scene on Monday were leaked to DispatchLIVE and verified by the department of correctional services, which has launched an investigation. Majola, of Khula Community Development, an NGO fighting for children’s rights, said the coronavirus was not “like an animal that you see from a distance and decide to hide from it”. “This is a virus that affects anyone and it would be painful to see young children like these ones getting the virus. We trust the department cares, but those in power must make sure that this is addressed immediately. We know MEC Siphokazi Lusithi will respond positively to this,” Majola said. Social development department spokesperson Gcobani Maswana said the workers did receive PPE  from the district and the province. “The department has done its best, even before the lockdown, to provide safety gear to its workers. The last gear was distributed this week as well. The department cares,” said Maswana. On the issue on protective gear for the juveniles, Maswana said there had been shortages, but the department had requested more supplies from the national government. He said the juveniles were not given rubber gloves  or sanitisers. “For their safety, these are not provided to them. They are getting sanitisers when needed. The national department has been asked for additional gear for the juveniles as there is a shortage there. “But we understand that they are not at risk as no visitors are allowed to visit them at this time at these centres,” said Maswana. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here