Under normal circumstances around this time, one should be writing about what Lententide means as a way of bringing awareness to Christians and non-Christians alike. However, the outbreak of the novel coronavirus has turned everything around us upside down, making it business unusual across the globe. It is no coincidence that the outbreak emerged during Lent and justifiably nation states have resorted to lockdowns to stop the spread of the virus. Society and indeed the church body finds itself at crossroads. Leadership is divided and unable to provide moral authority. Nonetheless, the early church, in its wisdom, created tools for humanity to be led to penitence, humility, fasting and forgiveness. Covid-19 has forced the church to be locked down in prayer at home. Our homes have become places of worship. There is no declaration that home churches are closed and there can be no worship. Lent is a most sacred 40-day period that commences on Ash Wednesday. It is a season of reflection and preparation before the Easter holiday celebrations. By observing the 40 days of Lent, Christians replicate Jesus Christ’s sacrifice and withdrawal into the desert for 40 days. Lent is marked by fasting. During this period, Christians forego some of their lifestyles, activities and habits such as smoking, alcohol, eating red meat, birthday celebrations, weddings and imicimbi (ceremonies). This is a time of revelation; a new spirit is born to the faithful. Whereas Easter celebrates the resurrection of Jesus, Lent recalls the events leading up to and including Jesus’ crucifixion. While  a small number of people today fast for the whole of Lent, a sizeable number maintain the practice on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday. Purple, as a colour, is used as a symbol for drapes, vestments and altar frontals for two reasons. Firstly, because it is associated with mourning and so anticipates the pain and suffering of the crucifixion, and secondly because purple is the colour associated with royalty, and celebrates Christ’s resurrection and sovereignty. Shrove Tuesday is the day before Lent starts, the Tuesday before Ash Wednesday. It is a day of penitence, to clean the soul, and a day of celebration as the last chance to feast before Lent begins. In Ash Wednesday services, churchgoers are marked on the forehead with a cross of ashes as a sign of penitence and mortality. The use of ashes, made by burning palm crosses from the previous Palm Sunday, is very symbolic. The minister or priest marks each worshipper on the forehead, and says “remember you are dust and unto dust you shall return”. The ashes are sometimes mixed with anointing oil, to ensure it sticks to the forehead. The use of anointing oil also reminds the faithful servants of God’s blessings and of the anointing that took place at their baptism. Honest individuals or groups should humble themselves so that they may be saved by grace. The people of the Eastern Cape and the whole of SA should therefore use 2020 Lententide to promote social cohesion, repentance and peace. I would like to end the theme “Marks deep prayer” in the context of lent, by concluding with the prayer of St Francis of Assisi quoted in part: “Lord, make me an instrument of your peace; where there is hatred, let me sow love; where there is injury, pardon; where there is discord, union; where there is doubt, faith; where there is despair, hope; where there is darkness, light; and where there is sadness, joy ...” Amen Lulama Ntshingwa is the president of the South African Council of Churches in the Eastern Cape and recently received a PhD in ecumenism 2020. In the public interest, none of our corona virus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.