The Covid-19 coronavirus pandemic has devastated countries across the world, both in terms of lives lost and, increasingly, leaving many people facing an uncertain future as the global economy heads closer to a depression. While the continent of Africa has thus far not experienced the depths of despair that is currently being witnessed in both Europe and the USA, it is feared that this may be the calm before the storm, with winter fast approaching, and severe socio-economic and related underlying health challenges posing a unique challenge to Africa in the fight against Covid-19. In an attempt to address this crisis, President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed a team of special envoys of the African Union, tasked to mobilise international support to address the economic challenges African countries will, and are facing as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The special envoy team appointed by Ramapahosa are Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Dr Donald Kaberuka, Tidjane Thiam and Trevor Manuel. They will be tasked with soliciting rapid and concrete support as pledged by the G20, the European Union and other international financial institutions. Says Ramaphosa: “In the light of the devastating socio-economic and political impact of the pandemic on African countries these institutions need to support African economies that are facing serious economic challenges with a comprehensive stimulus package for Africa, including deferred debt and interest payments. “The impact of the coronavirus pandemic has been global in both scale and reach, and this necessitates co-ordinated international action to capacitate all countries to respond effectively, but most particularly developing countries that continue to shoulder a historical burden of poverty, inequality and underdevelopment.” Ramaphosa added: “The sentiment expressed in two recent letters written to the G20 by a group of world leaders and a team of esteemed economists underscore the importance of bolstering health systems in poorer countries; this can only be done with the support of the international community.” All of the appointed special envoys come with a unique and highly specialised skill set, with vast related experience. Okonjo-Iweala is an internationally respected economist and development expert and served two terms as Minister of Finance of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. She has also served as Managing Director of the World Bank. Kaberuka is an economist and former president and chairman of the Board of Directors of the African Development Bank (AfDB). He is the former Finance Minister of Rwanda, and in 2016 was appointed as a Special Envoy of the African Union on sustainable financing for the AU and funding for Peace in Africa. Manuel was the longest-serving Minister of Finance in South Africa, and formerly headed the country’s National Planning Commission. In 2018 he was appointed as an Investment Envoy by Ramaphosa to engage domestic and international investors as part of the country’s national investment drive. Thiam is a banker and businessman. He is the former Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse and also served as Chief Financial Officer and CEO of Prudential. He also has a background in management consulting and worked for McKinsey and Company. The AU Chair said the appointment of the special envoys would expedite the process of securing economic support to enable countries on the continent to respond swiftly to this grave public health emergency. Ramaphosa said the envoys brought with them a wealth of experience and enjoyed long-standing relationships in the international financial community. “The African Union is immensely encouraged by the support that has been extended by the international community thus far. It is an affirmation that, as nations of the world, we are all in this together. We must now focus on efforts to marshal every resource at our disposal to ensure that this pandemic is contained, and does not result in the collapse of already ailing economies and financial systems on the continent.” In the public interest, none of our coronavirus news coverage will be placed behind our paywall and will be available free for all to read. If you would like to support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, please consider taking out a subscription by clicking here.