An Eastern Cape serial rapist will spend the rest of his life behind bars. Thando Madikiza, 34, who was handed a life sentence by the Mthatha high court on Tuesday for raping a minor in 2010, has been sentenced to an additional 150 years for raping five other women between 2010 and 2017. Madikiza, from Chris Hani Park in Mthatha, cut a desperate figure as Judge Buyiswa Majiki handed down the sentence. Crying at times and shaking violently at others, it was clear he did not expect leniency. Madikiza is already serving a 32-year sentence for raping two other women, having been sentenced in 2017 for those crimes. In his latest trial, he was convicted of 11 counts, including six of rape, four of robbery with aggravating circumstances and one of sexual assault.  Over the course of seven years, Madikiza raped the women, between the ages of 14 and 23, in the Mthatha West areas of Chris Hani Park, Slovo Park and Dicoleny.  The life sentence handed down by Majiki related to the rape of a 14-year-old girl at Chris Hani Park in May 2010. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison on each of the other 10 counts pertaining to the other five women.  Majiki said there was “no substantial and compelling” circumstances that would justify departing from  the prescribed sentences. “The crimes committed remain very serious, heinous, and in total disregard of the individuals' freedom and right of protection at home,” she said. Madikiza  raped his victims and robbed them of their personal belongings, including cellphones, laptops, takkies, DVD machines, cash and clothing. The court heard  that he had attacked some of his victims in their homes. Often he pretended to be looking for a person living in the house, or he claimed to know the victims' parents so they would allow him entry to their homes. Madikiza was arrested on June 6 2017 after raping and robbing his former girlfriend, as well as another victim. While in prison for those crimes, he was positively linked through his DNA to the other six victims. Madikiza pleaded guilty to all counts on December 9. But Majiki concurred with the state’s earlier submission that Madikiza’s guilty plea was not a sign of remorse but of regret in the face of the overwhelming evidence before the court.  Victims told DispatchLIVE  they welcomed the sentence, although some called for the death penalty. ''I wished that he could be hanged. But there is nothing I can do except to be strong and put the rape incident behind me and focus on the bright future that lies ahead of me. I will continue with my studies,'' one victim said. NPA regional spokesperson Luxolo Tyali said: “This is one of the sentences that the prosecution always endeavoured to achieve. It will definitely go a long way in showing criminals and would-be rapists that their evil deeds do not have a place in our society, and the state will always act to protect victims of crime.” lulamilef@dispatch.co.za