Defending champions EL Police got their EC Super 14 campaign to a disappointing start when they lost 17-11 to Bombers at Police Park over the weekend. The visitors held Police to a 12-11 lead until a last minute try, but they failed to make a conversion as they advanced to the next stage of the competition. Police secretary Kuhle Thumana  attributed their defeat to their poor defence,  while he also commended his teammates for their efforts which saw them losing in the dying minutes of the game. “We played in the rain, so it was a physical battle that was dominated upfront and of which we looked good in the scrums. But overall it was balanced. It’s unfortunate the result didn’t go our way,” said Thumana. “The opponents dominated in the rucks – we were not physical enough on the breakdowns, and I admit that our defence was not up to scratch. “It was off the line, and that allowed the opponents to break in and we couldn’t hold them back.” Thumana said they were hoping to bounce back on Saturday when they visit Border Super League reigning champions Swallows at Mdantsane NU 1. He said new players like former SWD Eagles left-wing Vuyo Mbotho and former Walter Sisulu University All Blacks skipper and lock Lelo Gamashe showed their true potential against Bombers, and he expected them to keep improving their performance with each game. “This week we have to work on our defences, because this was a tight game, and I think if we were solid in that department the result could have gone either way. “Our set pieces were not bad, and our scrums were also good, even though we lost critical line outs during the match – we also had a few good ones. “Plus our back line was strong guys like Mbotho, who’s also played for Border Bulldogs, played very well, and that’s exciting to see, especially with other prospects like Lelo Gamashe, Athi Kethani, and Themba Solima also in the team. “We are looking forward to this weekend’s match against Swallows.” The Mdantsane-based Hollywoodbets Swallows, who went through to the Gold Cup semifinals last season, visited Old Selbornians and managed to salvage a 18-17 victory in a tight contested game at Nashua Park on Saturday. Thumana said they had to give Swallows their best shot if they were to stand a chance to defend their hard earned title. “Swallows has never been an easy team to play against. They’ve got a winning record and they won this past weekend. Plus they will have home ground advantage, but we are going to focus on ourselves and perfect all these things that cost us the game. “We need to ensure that our defence line is correct, and I believe that everything will fall into place on Saturday.” Other results: Progress 28 Harlequins 19, Gardens 12 Kruisfontein 14, Breakers 21 Black Eagles 16, Ncerha Leopards 19 Young Leopards 18