Brutal killings have blighted the festive season in the Eastern Cape, with victims from prominent business people to guests at traditional ceremonies. In a slaying that has shaken the business community, the MD of the AM Group, Anda Maqanda, 35, one of Africa's star entrepreneurs, was killed by a group of men in a road rage altercation involving his younger brother. Maqanda, whose engineering firm operates in 13 African countries, was stabbed at his home village of Chizele outside Dutywa on Christmas Day and died at Frere Hospital in East London three days later. His permanent residence was at Bluewater Bay in Port Elizabeth, and he had been visiting family over the Christmas period.  He leaves daughter Abulele Maqanda, 6, and six-month-old son Konke Maqanda. Police spokesperson Captain Khaya Tonjeni said police had launched a murder investigation. "The deceased was attacked by a group of people and died of stab wounds. Police cannot confirm the number of attackers as that forms part of the investigation," Tonjeni said. In his last post on Twitter on December 24, Maqanda tweeted about a fellow villager who confronted him over rumours that he had used witchcraft to generate his fortune. His friend, National Union of Mineworkers secretary Ayanda Mazondwa, said Maqanda was killed by “rascals” who were “jealous” of his success. Mazondwa, who was with Maqanda on the day he was stabbed, said they were watching a soccer tournament at a nearby field when Maqanda was called by his younger brother Khanyile following a road rage incident with 10 men. When Maqanda attempted to intervene, he was stabbed three times, Mazondwa said. “He was not violent — he was killed for asking what went wrong,” said Mazondwa. Khanyile did not answer the Dispatch’s calls on Thursday. Maqanda will be buried in Chizele on Sunday. The businessman quit his job as a project manager at Eskom before starting the AM Group in 2008. The company specialises in engineering consulting, as well as design and construction of electrical overhead power lines, renewable energy and automation. He won numerous awards, including being named national winner of the SAB KickStart entrepreneurship programme in 2013. He was also listed among the Mail & Guardian’s 200 Young South Africans in 2014 and named in Forbes’ list of 30 promising African entrepreneurs under the age of 30 in 2015. His company, which employs about 150 people, operates in Ethiopia, Botswana, Lesotho, Ghana, Kenya, Namibia, Swaziland, Zambia, Angola, Zimbabwe, Democratic Republic of Congo, SA and Mozambique. Mazondwa said: “I’m in grief right now. I was privileged to know a very successful young millionaire. I admired Anda's work ethic and meek personality. I would like to send my deepest condolences to the Maqanda family. On New Year’s Day in Mthatha, a 30-year-old man was beaten to death by an angry mob which accused him of stabbing his neighbour to death and seriously injuring another man. The man was killed in Tshangisa Street in Slovo Park. Police spokesperson Captain Dineo Koena said the man was assaulted at 1pm on New Year's Day, allegedly after he had stabbed and killed a 21-year-old man. “It is alleged that the 30-year-old man was at home together with the 21-year-old neighbour. The men were seen by witnesses coming from behind the house with the younger man full of blood,” said Koena. “He later collapsed and died. When a 24-year-old man tried to intervene, he was also stabbed by the 30-year-old on his upper body and was rushed to hospital in a critical condition.” When community members noticed what was happening, they apprehended the 30-year-old suspect and assaulted him. “He succumbed to his injuries,” Koena said. Koena did not provide the names of the two dead men. In another killing,  23-year-old Siyambulela Peyi appeared in the Ezibeleni magistrate’s court on Thursday accused of killing a 26-year-old man at an initiation graduation ceremony on Tuesday. Peyi, wearing a blue and black tracksuit with blue shoes, appeared before magistrate Desmond Krummeck. Police spokesperson Captain Jackson Manatha said an argument about seniority in the seating arrangements at the graduation ceremony in Ilinge township, Komani,  boiled over, leading to the stabbing. “One of the men claimed to be senior to the other. Both men left the house, which was full of people. It is alleged that Peyi drew his knife and fatally stabbed the 26-year-old man on his upper body,” Manatha said. Krummeck postponed the case to January 9 for bail information and a possible bail application.