Motorists in Buffalo City are struggling to renew their licences at the traffic department, saying they are only getting “excuses”. For three days motorists queuing at the Gonubie office have been told computer systems were down. In Braelyn, there were not enough people on duty to perform eye tests. On Wednesday those in Gonubie were told to go home for a second consecutive day because a cashier had apparently not come to work. Tamaryn Henning, who travelled more than 30km from her Baysville home to Gonubie two days running, has still not renewed her driver’s licence. “We’ve just been told to come back on Thursday because the cashier could not be found,” she told the Dispatch. “It will be my third day but for other people it will be their fourth day.” She said a number of people had to go back home or to work. “On Tuesday I arrived at 7.30am and left at  1.40pm. We were not attended to the whole day. We were told that if one cashier is not in, the other can’t use their machine because they do not have each other's access codes." She said the exercise was costly, especially for those who came from outside Gonubie. “This is not supposed to be happening at all. Cashiers cannot help if one is on lunch or something. The municipality’s leaders should attend to this urgently.” Another person in the Gonubie queue, Maureen van Straten, grumbled it was “gross incompetence”. “My son is visiting here and this is delaying him. There are people who are here to make sure that they have fixed their licensing problems before going back to work. I met a teacher who was struggling to get help because of this incompetence,” she said. Van Straten said she had developed sympathy for people who took an illegal route to obtain documents. “I understand why people are doing illegal things — it is because of gross incompetence like this. We have been calling people who are in charge, but without any success.” A motorist at the Braelyn office had to leave because of the long queues. “The eye test queue was long. A number of people had to do the same. The system was very slow and you can see that the department is short-staffed,” said Pindiwe Mabali. Buffalo City Metro spokesperson Samkelo Ngwenya did not respond to queries.