East London football fans will be treated to another mouthwatering Nedbank Cup encounter when Chris Hani District-based Amavarara bring their clash against Super Eagles to the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane. The Komani-based ABC Motsepe League side initially submitted  three potential venues to host this much-anticipated encounter against former GladAfrica Championship side. The submitted sites were Queen's College grounds, Cradock Sports Stadium, and the Sisa Dukashe Stadium. But speaking to the Dispatch after Amavarara drew 3-all against Bhisho Stars in a third-tier league match at North End Stadium over the weekend, Amavarara chairperson Lusapho Mzwakali said that due to the strict requirements from the Premier Soccer League (PSL) they had to abandon their  fans in the Chris Hani district area because Sisa Dukashe Stadium was the only venue that adhered to PSL standards. On Monday the club will officially confirm this with the PSL. “We are thrilled with the draw — getting home ground makes us feel more confident although we didn't really have a suitable home ground for the game. We have decided to bring the game to Sisa Dukashe Stadium,” said Mzwakali. “We didn't have many choices when it came to this ... Sisa Dukashe was the only suitable venue and we are sad as a club that we have to leave our supporters in Komani to play here. “But we really didn't have a choice when we studied the addendum PSL sent regarding the venue.” Mzwakali said being drawn against Bethlehem-based team, which is also campaigning in the ABC Motsepe League in the Free State,  meant they had more chances to proceed to the next stage of the competition. “We are satisfied with the draw because I think our chances to proceed to the last 16 stage will increase against Eagles. “If we fail to get to the next level we'll have ourselves to blame; the toss was good for us.” He said they were in desperate need of new tracksuits, especially going to a crucial game which will put them in the spotlight. “We are struggling with our dress code — we don’t have proper clothes for the players. We need new tracksuits; T-shirts for example so that these players also feel confident like other teams. “Maybe that's another reason why we couldn't beat Bhisho Stars — because they looked beautiful in their tracksuits,” said Mzwakali. Last season saw an unexpected final when GladAfrica Championship side, TS Galaxy owned by well-established soccer agent Tim Sukazi, beat Kaizer Chiefs 1-0 to clinch the title. The only professional side in the province Chippa United, will host reigning champions TS Galaxy either at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium or at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. PSL will announce the final dates later. mfundop@dispatch.co.za