East London-born  motorcyclist and top South African woman  off-road enduro racer, Taye Perry,  was one of the first South African female bikers to complete the toughest race in the world on a motorcycle. Becoming the second South African woman to cross the Dakar Rally finish line, the 28-year-old rider, fondly dubbed SA's “Desert Rose” is ecstatic about her Dakar experience and has no plans to slow down.The race took place in  Saudi Arabia from January 5-17 and saw Perry  power across  7,500km  of desert, against all odds.“It’s the most incredible feeling, and I’m sad it’s all over. I can’t wait to do it all again in 2021, where I hope to better myself and improve my performance,” said Perry who spent her childhood exploring along the Nahoon river and her first three years of school at Stirling Primary.“The Dakar is one of the longest races in the world. It’s both mentally and physically demanding. Hours and hours on a motorcycle through vast and ever-changing terrains where a split second can be the difference between life and disaster. I think there’s no better feeling of achievement and pride than getting through 12 days of that.” “I loved every bit of it; the pain, the struggle, the hysterical laughs, it was all worth it.”At just 1.58m tall and weighing only 58kg, Perry was one of the smallest competitors in Dakar history, but what she lacks in size, she makes up for in skill.“People are always surprised when they meet me. My bike stands almost as tall as me and weighs close to 180kg so my secret comes down to technique and riding style that has taken me years to perfect and adapt,” said Perry who competed in her first rally in 2014.“There were times [during the Dakar] I’d curse my height and my short legs, because I’d be spending way too much unnecessary energy picking up my heavy bike because of silly falls.” Riding for the last 15 years, Perry describes herself as a “tomboy who loves nature and competition” so it isn't surprising that she kept chasing bigger bikes — and bigger challenges.“Since my first motorcycle race in 2006 everything spiralled upwards bike-wise and race-wise. Everything has pointed me in the direction of Dakar,” said Perry.“When I got into the biggest bike class, the 450cc class, back in 2013, I started chasing the bigger events, the more daring, the more challenging, because I’ve always had a passion for racing.”While Perry beat the odds and made it through one of the toughest races of her life unscathed, it did not come without its low points.During the second-last stage of the   race, Perry had a  technical fault on her KTM 450cc and was left stranded in t desert.“My Dakar dream looked like it was over. So many emotions ran through me, I cried, I prayed, I walked in circles holding my tow rope out for any hopeful help as the hours ticked by. So many competitors passed by without helping. The emergency team would call every few minutes asking if I wanted to be evacuated, but I refused to give up that easily.“My miracle finally came in the form of a car competitor, a Spaniard and an Argentinian T1 Toyota. They refused to let my Dakar dream die on the penultimate round and they towed me hundreds of kilometres, often being dragged. It was the longest days of my life, getting into the Bivouac after 11:30pm.After a mere hour  of sleep, Perry took off to complete the 12th and final stage, finishing  77th, and while she may not go down in history as the very first South African woman to cross the finish line, her grit and resilience will be remembered by many.“I think many doubted I’d get far. And I think many counted on it too. But I’m on my own mission, and I have big future plans,” said Perry who has her heart set on completing more Dakars and  handful of international rallies. “The thing I love most about riding is the freedom. There’s nothing like it, especially when racing. It’s a world I like to be in.” MadeleineC@dispatch.co.za