There is trouble in paradise in the AmaMpondo AseNyandeni royal house — the king is dumping the queen. In a statement issued by AmaMpondo AseNyandenuy the royal house said King Ndamase Ndamase and his wife Queen Tina MaDosini Ndamase had separated. “The royal house of AmaMpondo seNyandeni wishes to inform the nation that King Ndamase Ndamase and Queen Tina Ndamase have amicably decided to part ways due to irreconcilable differences,” the statement read. ''The decision did not come easy. The king and the queen reached this point after a number of attempts to save their marriage. However, King Ndamase and Queen Tina continue to love and care for each other. They have requested to be given space to deal with this matter privately.” The king's brother, Nkosi Ntondoyesizwe Ndamase, said: ''I was so shocked to see this statement on  social media. As the king's sibling and a senior royal family member I was not aware of this purported separation or looming divorce. I have never attended a meeting about the unhappiness of their marriage. It is customary that we should know these things. “Remember MaDosini is a queen of AmaMpondo not just a wife of Ndamase. Also, MaDosini and Ndamase have two sons, who are princes of AmaMpondo. So by virtue of being a wife of Ndamase, she is like my wife and their sons are like my sons and if there is any development that may lead to divorce, I and other senior royal family members should now discuss it as the royal family.'' He said if the separation and divorce were processed through civil and not customary law, there should be a decree by the court of law. Ntandoyesizwe said according to him, Ndamase and MaDosini were  still together and  in love. ''I have video of King Ndlovuyezwe with his wife, the queen, and sons celebrating  Christmas Day together with Ndlovuyezwe cooking for MaDosini and the son. They were all happy. Ntandoyesizwe said he was trying to contact the king to check the news. ''His cellphones are all on  voice mail. I called MaDosini and she said she was not aware of the statement and there was no separation between them,'' said Ntandoyesizwe. According to  sources close to the royal family,  the  king  left his Nyandeni Great Place  two weeks ago​.