Run in near perfect weather conditions, the EL Eye Hospital Laser 10km produced interesting contests throughout the field as it meandered through the suburban streets of Beacon Bay. The race, organised by East London AC, also carried Border Championship status, though this aspect delivered mixed results, some good, others disappointing. Being so early in the year it may be that not all are as sharp as they might otherwise be, though that will not be considered an excuse by the powers that be. In the men’s race it was a second win in as many weeks for Zwelonke AC’s Yanga Malusi in 31:17, which was only three seconds quicker than last Friday at the PWC 10km. As was the case the previous week Malusi was not pushed, however, so there was no pressure. On this occasion Easy Equities Born 2 Run’s Lithobe Menzeleleli finished second in 33:03, with his club mate, Nikelo Lolwana, third in 34:36. The first male veteran, Xolisile Sinkintana, of Nedbank, finished fifth overall in 34:42. In the age group he was followed by Robert Petschel of Gonubie Harriers and Bryan Ranger of Old Selbornians. The masters race offered no surprises, with the old firm of Makaya Masumpa of Born 2 Run, Mzoli Mpalala of Old Mutual and Phillip Quvana also Born 2 Run taking charge of the podium. Charl Pienaar won the 60+ grandmasters race with newcomer to the category, Mark Hayne of Born 2 Run second and Graham Kumm of Oxford Striders third. Stutterheim gave a strong showing in the junior category taking first, second and fourth through the efforts of Sikelela Vani in 35:08, Anathi Guga in 37:55 and Azobonga Hodi in 39:09. Sandwiched between was Aiden Young of Oxford Striders in 39:08. Hanlie Botha also chalked up a second straight win in the women’s race as well as the 40+ veteran competition. Botha won in 36:31. The Born 2 Run star was joined on the women’s podium by her club compatriots Caryn Lategan and Andrea Botha in 39:16 and 40:19 respectively. Stephanie Smith of Massmart was fourth in 41:22, while Unetsie Steenberg Botha followed in fifth and was third in the 35+ category, behind Lategan and Ranger. Botha was followed by Sherelle Smith of Oxford Striders, and Bonnie Currin on Born 2 Run in the veteran race. First master was Debbie Gee of Oxford Striders, and was joined on the podium by Born 2 Run’s pairing of Sherae Kreusch and Alison Langtree. The grandmasters race was one of the most competitive, with Nedbank’s Esme Ehrke winning in 57:11, Ansie Bronkhorst of Oxford Striders following in 57:38, and stalwart Beanie Beard of Old Selbornians third in 57:45. The junior women’s race was a clean sweep for Born 2 Run, with Sascha Mortimer first in a personal best of 44:32, Taryn Hensberg second in an encouraging 45:49, and Refiloe Masipa third in 49:12. Two 10km races have opened the season, but the weekend that follows offers a much tougher challenge, with the Bridle Drift Half Marathon being staged by Real Gijimas in Mdantsane on Sunday.