The four-day domestic franchise match between the Warriors and the Cape Cobras at Buffalo Park in East London was in an interesting position just after the tea break on Wednesday. Things were virtually even after the Warriors, resuming on 104 for two wickets, declared their first innings on 341/9 just eight runs ahead of the Cobras’ 333 all out  on Tuesday. The overnight pair of Gihahn Cloete and skipper Rudi Second started off like a house on fire and runs came fast and furiously. The Cobras had set an  attacking field and there were many gaps which the batsmen exploited well. The third-wicket partnership prospered and Cloete and Second added a brisk 122 runs in well under three hours. Cloete cut loose at the arrival of left-arm spinner George Linde and 17 runs were scored off the Test player’s initial over. But Linde settled down and then induced Second to leave his crease and he was brilliantly stumped by Cobras wicketkeeper Kyle Verreynne for a superb 55 (124 balls, 8x4, 1x6) at 213 for three wickets. Cloete continued aggressively and was unfortunate to miss what would have been a well-deserved century when he was caught by Janneman Malan off Thando Ntini for 91, including  18 fours, at 267/4. Sinethemba Qeshile made a neat 24, and Tian Koekemoer two, while Jade de Klerk and Andrew Birch added a quick 21 for the eighth wicket, during which the Cobras’ score was overtaken. But then Birch tried one big hit too many and was caught in the deep and the players trooped off the field for the tea break at 339/8. After tea the innings was soon closed at 341/9 when Lutho Siplama was caught behind by Verryenne off Mthiwekhaya Linde for a duck. Linde finished with 2/43 and there were wickets for Nandre Burger, 2/68, Ntini, 2/53, Jason Smith, 1/39, and Mkhiwekhaya Nabe, 2/44. After about 40 minutes after tea the Cobras had moved to 26 for no loss with Malan and Matthew Kleinveldt at the crease. The match appears to be meandering to a draw, but both teams are hell-bent on gaining extra points from the game. Perhaps some quick runs by the Cobras could result in a declaration and a tempting target set for the Warriors which could result in some exciting cricket on Thursday.