The coronavirus outbreak that began in China and has now affected several eastern nations and the US is a relative of SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, which killed more than 700 people globally in the early 2000s. To date, coronavirus fatalities are not close to that number, but the emergence of the new super strain comes at a particularly precarious time. Last week, the World Health Organisation (WHO) released two new reports showing that there is a weak pipeline for antibiotic agents. The 60 products in development bring little benefit over existing treatments and  few target the most critical resistant bacteria, the organisation says. “Never has the threat of antimicrobial resistance been more immediate and the need for solutions more urgent,” said WHO director-general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “Numerous initiatives are under way to reduce resistance, but we also need countries and the pharmaceutical industry to step up and contribute with sustainable funding and innovative new medicines.” The Human Sciences Research Council says keeping tabs on drug-resistant diseases is particularly important in SA because of the vulnerability of people living with HIV. “It has been reported that about 50% of new TB cases, for example, are of HIV co-infected people.” The two new WHO reports have highlighted that research and development for antibiotics is primarily driven by small- or medium-sized enterprises, with large pharmaceutical companies continuing to exit the field. Of the 50 antibiotics in the pipeline, 32 target WHO priority pathogens but the majority have only limited benefits when compared to existing antibiotics. So-called gram-negative bacteria, which are stronger, can cause severe and often deadly infections that pose a threat to people with weak immune systems or those whose immunity is not fully developed such as newborn babies, ageing populations and people undergoing surgery and cancer treatment. “It’s important to focus public and private investment on the development of treatments that are effective against the highly resistant bacteria because we are running out of options,” said Hanan Balkhy, WHO assistant director-general for antimicrobial resistance. “We need to ensure that once we have these new treatments, they will be available to all who need them.” Disturbingly, the WHO acknowledges that new treatments alone will not be enough. It says that there has to be a measure in place to improve infection prevention and monitor the appropriate use of antibiotics. At present, SA  has in place the National Antimicrobial Resistance Strategy Framework. This seeks to align with global efforts to tackle viruses and also meet many of the objectives stipulated by the WHO.