Bright boxing prospect Ntlantla Tyirha may be stripped of his SA junior-flyweight title if he does not sort out his managerial and promotional issues. This warning was issued by Boxing SA (BSA) after Tyirha revealed that he had rejoined Xaba Promotions (XP), which he dumped last year to align himself with Last Born Promotions. While he has been stable hopping, Tyirha has been challenged by Sivenathi Nontshinga of Rumble Africa Promotions, and if he does not make plans to honour the fight he may lose his title without defending it in the ring. BSA CEO Tsholofelo Lejaka confirmed that the regulatory body would seek a meeting with the Mdantsane-based boxer to get clarity on his managerial and promotional status. This is despite the fact Tyirha has a valid contract with Last Born Promotions (LBP), which is recognised by BSA. Tyirha’s situation is further complicated in that LBP has already accepted Nontshinga’s challenge on behalf of Tyirha, putting the boxer under pressure to honour the fight. “Yes, Last Born Promotions accepted Nontshinga’s challenge and, as such, Tyirha will need to honour it,” Lejaka said. “But we need to find out  his managerial status.” When he rejoined XP, Tyirha said that he was misled by his management team to leave the promotions that guided him to a national title triumph as a 19-year-old within just four fights. In the fight for the SA title, the left hander dethroned Bongani Silila via a third-round knockout to win the crown in December 2018. Since then he has not honoured a single title defence, instead opting for a fight for the WBO title against veteran Nkosinathi Joyi, which he lost. This has left  boxing circles disgruntled, believing that Tyirha was holding the title as a ransom. “Tyirha is an adult and, at some point, he needs to account with what is happening with his career,” Lejaka said. “He cannot keep shifting the blame to other people because he came to us and said he wanted out of XP and signed with LBP. Now he is changing his tune again.”