Black consciousness struggle icon Stephen Bantu Biko must be rolling in his grave at the current state of South Africa. He must be so disgusted by what black politicians have done to the state, worsening people's living conditions. The greed and corruption from government representatives have eaten into the country's moral fibre. Government officials seem to plot at every chance they get how money meant for development can be siphoned off into their pockets. This government seems to consistently prioritise the crass materialistic appetites of its deployees. Seemingly every infrastructure project or tender leads to exaggerated prices by bidders who are connected to the ruling party. This government has shown black people, whose material conditions are declining every year, the middle finger. Many municipalities in the Eastern Cape have collapsed. Some are hanging by a thread. But the most striking thing about these municipalities is that they don't pay their creditors and they don't deliver services. People with ambitions of self enrichment have taken over municipal councils. State owned enterprises are also not doing what they were established for, which was to accelerate development. Mismanagement at these companies has bankrupted most of them. They constantly go back to government for bailouts or government guarantees. The contempt this government has for South Africans, especially Africans, is obvious. Taxpayers are now forced to put their developmental priorities to the side and pay for problems they never played a role in creating. Allocations for school infrastructure year after year are returned to Treasury because they were not spent. Meanwhile, schools are falling apart in the province. Sanitation is a huge challenge, with children falling to their death into pit latrines. No-one takes responsibility for these incidents. A government that loves its citizens would make every effort to protect its citizens from maladministration. Corruption has real victims and they are the ordinary person on the street. — Samkelo Latakisa, via e-mail