A woman on Friday claimed she had been mistreated and thrown out of Mthatha Private Hospital “like a dog”. Zime Marwede, 30, a mother of one who works at the KSD municipality, said she had gone for treatment after  an operation to fix her broken arm on January 3. But when she arrived, security guards were told to remove her from the premises, she said. “It was raining. They [security guards forcefully took my purse and chased me out. "I was kicked out like a dog,” she said. Attempts to get comment from the hospital's manager, were unsuccessful on Monday. The Dispatch was told that the manager would only be available  next week. But according to a staffer at the hospital, there was another side to the story. Speaking on condition of anonymity as staff are not allowed to speak to the media without authorisation, the employee accused Marwede of swearing at the doctor who attended to her after  her operation last week. Marwede said  her arm was broken after she was attacked by three elderly women in Maiden Farm in Mthatha on New Year's Day. After undergoing surgery on January 3, she was discharged on January 7. She said the doctor who attended her refused to give her a sick note as proof that she had been in hospital. She wanted to show this her employer. Instead, she alleged the doctor told her she was not her “puppy”. When Marwede returned to the hospital four days later, she said she was told no beds were available. Instead, security guards were instructed to remove her from the premises. “I am disappointed and hurt. They should return all the money they took from my medical aid,” she said. When the Dispatch visited the hospital, a  receptionist confirmed that she had told Marwede  no beds were available to accommodate her. She said the issue of the sick note was between Marwede and the doctor who attended to her. The hospital availed its services to private doctors who attended to patients there, the receptionist said. Provincial health department spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo said Marwede could lay a complaint with the Health Professional Council of SA. sikhon@dispatch.co.za