Eastern Cape premier Oscar Mabuyane has called for intensification of monitoring in initiation schools  to ensure  there is no increase of Covid-19  and no subsequent deaths. Already two traditional surgeons have died of the virus, and about 20 initiates have tested positive. Meanwhile  the Eastern Cape has recorded five deaths of initiates due to botched circumcisions (not related  to Covid 19). “This is a serious outcome for us and we are looking into this matter as the provincial Coronavirus Command Council in consultation with traditional leaders,” said Mabuyane  at a media briefing in Bhisho on Tuesday. One of the new regulations  eased by the national Coronavirus Command Council relates to the traditional rite of circumcision, which started in December 17. “Our teams have conducted screening of initiates in all the targeted districts using primary healthcare centres and the mobile clinics in partnership with the National Health Laboratory Services. We are also rolling out public education about processes and protocols for ulwaluko using community radio stations and SABC radio stations,” he said. “To ensure compliance with the strict infection control regulations, the plan for this week is that the teams will be going around monitoring adherence to regulations.” He said stringent monitoring would ensure that: *Parents have provided masks, water and soap for all  people at initiation schools. *There is access to water for washing hands. NGOs have pledged support with drinking water. *There is appropriate space for social distancing. *All initiates have gone through screening and Covid-19 testing. Mabuyane said the health department would continue monitoring adherence to the Customary Male Initiation Act guidelines, hydration and wellness of abakhwetha. “We learnt with great concern about the passing away of a traditional surgeon [Qaqamile Siyongwana] from Mthatha. Subsequent to that, we tested about 30 initiates that were in his initiation school and five of those initiates tested positive to Covid-19. “This is a serious outcome for us and we are looking into this matter as the provincial Coronavirus Command Council in consultation with traditional leaders. We want to repeat the fact that ulwaluko is the sole responsibility of families, parents and guardians working closely with their traditional leaders as custodians of our culture. The fact that government has eased regulations, does not mean parents should rush their children during this pandemic,” said the premier. Mabuyane made a passionate plea to parents and families to take full responsibility for ensuring the safety of their sons at initiation schools. “This is your sole responsibility as parents and families and guidance, don’t shift that to anyone else, be it a traditional leader, premier or MPs. “Initiation of your son is your specific responsibility as a parent to ensure that you entrust him to traditional circumcision practitioners with good credentials. It is your responsibility as parents to ensure that your son comes back from initiation school healthy, strong and alive. “Death of an initiate is painful to everyone and nobody deserves it. Sending boys to initiation schools is not to cut short their young lives, but make men out of the boys,” said Mabuyane. “Being a man is not a fashion, but an added responsibility in one’s society and one should act as such. All we want are patriots.” The premier expressed disappointment that many parents were afraid of their children and feared them,  allowing their sons to undergo the custom even though their safety in the face of the coronavirus could not be guaranteed at initiation schools. “They feared to put their foot down and frankly tell their sons that for their safety, they would not be allowed to go to initiation this season as we are faced with this enemy of Covid-19 and lives will be at risk. But, it looks like  children have the upper hand  and their parents  thus surrender to their pressure. “So, parents should take full responsibility and bear the consequence of their  actions. But, it will be painful for anyone when parents  grieve and bury their sons, instead of joyous celebration of their homecoming,” warned Mabuyane. Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders acting chair Nkosi Langa Mavuso said so far things were going as planned as  members of both the national, provincial and local houses, municipal council members as well as Contralesa leaders were some of traditional leaders involved in the monitoring of initiation schools. “According to the risk-adjusted strategy that we presented to government, we encourage parents to manage circumcision within the Covid-19 protocols,” Mavuso said. DispatchLIVE