The untimely death of Mamelodi Sundowns defender Motjeka Madisha has deprived the community of Zebediela and Limpopo of a beacon of hope. This is the feeling of AmaZulu and former Chippa United goalkeeper Veli Mothwa, who is also from Zebediela. The gifted 25-year-old Sundowns centre-back died in a car accident  on Zuurfontein Road in Chloorkop, Johannesburg,  early on Sunday. “I don’t have words to describe how I feel about this [Madisha’s death]," Mothwa said. “He was a source of motivation, a brother and a role model. “Our people of Zebediala lost a hero ... the community has lost a good human being.’’ As a manner of giving back to the community, Mothwa, Madisha and  other Premier Soccer League (PSL) stars from Zebediala, like Orlando Pirates’ Paseka Mako, customarily staged festive football tournaments. “As PSL players from the area we always host tournaments in December and we attend each other’s tournaments,” Mothwa said. “Madisha had planned to host his games later this month as always. “This year, my tournament will be dedicated to Madisha.” Madisha’s death comes barely three weeks after that of another Brazilians star, Anele Ngcongca, who also died in car accident, in KwaZulu-Natal, just as he was poised to join AmaZulu on a season-long loan. “Madisha never really talked too much on the phone,” Mothwa said. “I think we chatted on WhatsApp two weeks ago. “He was congratulating me on joining AmaZulu from Chippa. In person he was so bubbly, full of energy and talkative.” Also born and bred in Zebediala, Sammy Seabi, who is on loan at Swallows from Sundowns, concurred with Mothwa that the community of Zebediala was  poorer without Madisha. “Motjeka was a role model,” he said. “People in Zebediela looked up to him. He was just a good person all-round. “His departure is a huge loss for the community. He used to motivate youngsters who wanted to play in the PSL.” Seabi said he was  grateful to Madisha for helping him settle at Sundowns when he joined from Polokwane City in August 2019. “I was lucky to find him at Sundowns. He showed me around.” “I’ll always feel indebted to Madisha for looking after me at Sundowns. “Our last interaction was two days ago ... he was  telling me that he’d recovered from a mild injury.’’ The PSL is likely to postpone Downs’  match against TS Galaxy that was billed for Tuesday. League spokesperson Luxolo September could not be reached for comment. Box of Madisha’s fact file Date of birth: 12 January 1995 Place of birth: Zebediela, Limpopo Sundowns appearances: 123, six goals Bafana Bafana games: 12, one goal SA U20: 10, two goals Trophies won: Three  league titles (2017/18, 18/19 and 19/20), CAF Champs League (2016) and the TKO Cup (2019/20) all with Downs SowetanLIVE