The feuding amaXhosa royal family put their differences aside on Friday for the funeral of queen mother Nozamile Sigcawu at Nqadu great place. Nkosi Derrick Daliwonga Mgwebi and Prince Ahlangene Vulikhaya Sigcawu, the two royals  appointed by opposing factions as acting and permanent kings, shared a podium to give  a vote of thanks. It took their supporters by surprise  as the two have not seen eye-to-eye in the royal succession row. For months,  family members have been at each other’s throats over who should lead after the death of King Mpendulo Sigcawu in November 2019. Only Mgwebi was billed to give the vote of thanks, but when speaker after speaker lashed out at the royal family infighting, it was decided that Mgwebi and Ahlangene would share   the podium to reaffirm the importance of unity.  Princess NomaXhosa Sigcawu, who is Ahlangene’s aunt but is in Mgwebi’s faction, grabbed the microphone from Ahlangene and refused to let him speak. However, Mgwebi intervened. “Ahlangene did not force his way here. It’s me who instead said that we must both say the vote of thanks. I have listened to the speakers calling for unity among the family,” Mgwebi said. Mourners applauded, saying the ongoing royal feud needed to be resolved. Earlier, retired Methodist Church Bishop Andile Mbete, Cogta MEC Xolile Nqatha, AmaRharhabe royal spokesperson Prince Zolile Burns-Ncamashe and Moral Regeneration Movement provincial chair  Nkosi Ngangomhlaba Matanzima all pleaded for unity within the royal family.  Nqatha, Matanzima and Burns-Ncamashe were all frank, saying the  family must desist from public mudslinging and making a laughing stock of the Sigcawus and the Xhosa nation. “Stop using the media as platform to solve your indifferences. This will not help but make things worse. Use the available family structures to resolve your problems; do not run to TVs and newspapers,” Mbete said. Mbete, Burns-Ncamase and Mgwebi all stressed the importance of strengthening old relationships between the House of Phalo — AmaGcaleka and AmaRharhabe — to ensure the stability of the Xhosa nation and restore its customary practices. In the tribute, Queen Nozamile’s children said their mother had died a heartbroken woman as her royal family was in disarray, filled with hatred and tearing itself  apart over a successor to her son.  Nqatha said he hoped that the unity was not a one-day event, but would be sustained. Among monarchs who attended were AmaRharhabe king Jonguxolo Sandile, his sister Princess NomaRharhabe Sandile, Western Thembuland king Siyambonga Matanzima, Western Mpondoland king Ndamase Ndamase and his wife, Queen MaDosini Tina Ndamase. DispatchLIVE