The year draws to a close, still with little competitive activity on the roads. Runners are turning to running in the “wilds” and on  trails to test themselves. Last weekend the Merrell Hobbit was run over distances of 90, 38, 16 and 5km in the mountains of Hogsback. The total entry was up by about 18% on that of 2019, which indicates that runners are not put off by fear of Covid-19, despite the media hype. Distances on  trails are always approximate and time comparisons highly subjective, influenced as they are by terrain changes, weather and other elements. Many local runners took part and can be pleased with their results in such uncertain times. Given that my week was somewhat disrupted, I had little contact except with Shale Biggs who won the women’s 38km race. She organised a well supported, virtual trail race in August, so her view of the Hogsback race is based on personal experience. Biggs and her husband Shaun, who also took part, hail from KwaZulu-Natal. In the aftermath of the race she said: “such an incredible event, beautiful scenery, amazing forests, technical trails, steep ascents and descents. I ran consistently and loved it”. Today as readers contemplate those words, many others will be back in Hogsback for the Arminel Trail which is run over shorter 3, 10 and 21km distances, but which remain challenging trails. It is reasonable to expect many more trail runs to be added to the running calendar if, when 2021 opens, road races remain impractical to organise due to government restrictions and with no practical solutions coming from Athletics SA. This in turn will affect the sustainability of the sport nationally, provincially and indeed for all but the wealthiest of running clubs. Trail runs are generally more expensive than road races. This  affects the poor and those who have been negatively affected by the lockdown through job losses. We already have a global phenomenon with many people battling to feed their families. I was asked to comment on an incident  last weekend and to share the experience with runners, walkers and others who exercise outside. It was 5am on Sunday morning when I entered a bushy trail area at the foot of Beaconhurst Drive. It offers a crossing of the Quenera River on the way up to Gonubie. The short version is that I was attacked by two knife-wielding men while doing a recce for the Sunday morning run, shoved around and relieved of various possessions. I have run in that bush and  surrounding remote areas and beaches for many years, both on my own and in company. This was the first unpleasant encounter.  I accept that we are not invincible or immune to attack. It is a “numbers game” and I would urge all who love the bush trails to play it as such. Run in groups, even small ones of three or four are a deterrent. Show no fear, stay calm, adopt an element of caution and run on. DispatchLIVE