South African cricket fans must feel short-changed. Not only are they having to suffer the on-going embarrassing, playground antics of Cricket SA’s executive, board members and now the interim board, their team was thumped 3-0 by the English in the T20 series. To rub salt in the wound, the one-day series between the two teams was called off due provisional positive Covid tests within the England camp that actually turned out to be negative. There has been precious little for action for cricket followers to enthuse over as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. It’s December and in a normal world under normal circumstances fans would be preparing for the Mzansi Super League final that would have been played on Wednesday. The competition would have been in the playoff stages after dozens of round-robin matches. They would also have been preparing for a domestic international summer filled with cricket heading into January, February and March. That is in doubt as well for the same reasons, although CSA and Sri Lanka Cricket confirmed jointly this week that their two-match Test series is going ahead. So the Boxing Day Test at Centurion and the New Year’s match at the Wanderers will continue as planned. The series forms part of the ICC World Test Championship and the organisations say they are looking forward to a successful and competitive clash between the two teams who are “equally thrilled to return to red-ball action”. We, too, are cautiously looking forward to it happening. Sri Lanka and former Proteas coach Mickey Arthur will play the role of pathfinder, along with a health official ahead of the squad’s departure. They will assess the situation in the country and smooth the way for the arrival of their squad. On the face of it, Sri Lanka are keen to get some cricket under their belts and will tour despite the negative media around the postponed England series. From an outsider’s point of view, it may have been that the England cricketers had had enough of bio-security bubbles and doubts around positive and negative testing. By all accounts the England Cricket Board wanted the series to go ahead because of obvious financial reasons. But it’s not difficult to understand the England cricketers’ situation if you consider many of them had been in a bio-bubble since June-July. Some of their cricketers even pulled out of the lucrative Big Bash League in Australia due to bio-bubble fatigue. Cricket is facing tough and uncertain times all over the world but fans will be hoping this brief Sri Lanka tour will play out without incident ahead of an eagerly-anticipated Australia series. DispatchLIVE