The DA opposes any further restrictions on liquor sales and extensions to the curfew, saying they   will only inflict further harm on SA's already ailing economy. This comes after reports that the national coronavirus command council (NCCC) is likely to implement tighter localised restrictions, including further restrictions on the sale of alcohol, to curb the spread of Covid-19 in hotspots. The council also recommended that hospitality establishments such as restaurants and bars should stop serving food and alcohol by 9pm. The command council's recommendations will need to be approved by the cabinet before they can be implemented. DA MP Dean Macpherson said the two recommendations, if implemented, would be devastating to the economy, saying they are not sustainable solutions. He said businesses cannot operate in a “stop/start” manner every time there is a wave of Covid-19. “What we need to ensure is that the law is enforced, including alcohol-related behaviour change. This is what  the SA police and the metro police should be doing every day.  However, the government wants to punish restaurants for their own policing failures,” said Macpherson. More than ever, businesses needed the business as the festive season approaches, which will see South Africans spending their money  in local economies across the country, Macpherson said. “If South Africans are being forced to leave a restaurant at 9pm or being told to be in bed by 10pm, they may very well reconsider spending their hard-earned money, which would be devastating,” he said. Macpherson said the government was to blame for the strain the health-care system was  under, citing that it had failed spectacularly since March to build “any meaningful health-care capacity”. “If this capacity existed, as we were told was the reason for the initial lockdown, then we would not be having this conversation in the first place,” he said. “It is once again hard-working South Africans in the liquor and restaurant businesses who will pay with their jobs to cover up for government failures.” TimesLIVE