East London golfing star Zethu Myeki has finally taken the plunge and gone pro after dominating on the amateur circuit over the past few years. Mdantsane-born and raised Myeki took part in her first two pro events on the Sunshine Ladies Tour over the past two weeks, putting in solid performances in her first outings. “Turning pro has always been a dream for me, so it is great to finally be able to live that dream. “I already knew at the beginning of last year that I was going to go pro at the end of the year, so I am happy that it has finally happened and I am excited to be playing on the Sunshine Ladies Tour. “It has been a bit tough, I am really enjoying playing professionally but without sponsorship it istough, but I am hoping something will eventually come up to help me.” In her first pro tournament, the Cape Town Ladies Open, last week, Myeki got off to a  slow start in the first round, before bouncing back in the second and third rounds to climb back up the leader board and eventually finishing 17th out of 33 golfers. Earlier this week in the SuperSport Ladies Challenge at the Gary Player Golf Club in Sun City, she enjoyed a more stable three rounds, easily making the cut and eventually finishing tied 13th out of 47 golfers that had started the event. “I didn't do too bad, it is only my first two tournaments and I know what I am capable of, but overall I am happy with how I have been playing so far,” admitted Myeki. “In the Cape Town Open it took me a bit to find my feet, but in the SuperSport Open I was feeling stronger and the scores were better than in the first tournament, so I want to keep getting better. “So I am hoping that I will keep improving going forward.” One of the big highlights for Myeki over the two tournaments was getting the chance to play alongside top SA ladies golfer and Cape Town Ladies Open winner Lee-Anne Pace, during her final round of the SuperSport Ladies Challenge. “It is amazing to be playing alongside these athletes who I looked up to. I played my last round with Lee-Ann, she has always been one of the players who I have looked up to and to play with her was an amazing experience that I really enjoyed,” said Myeki. Looking forward it is set to be a busy month for Myeki, with a number of big tournaments coming up before things quieten down a bit, with a big end to the year  on the cards. “Next week I am going to George to play in the Dimension Data Ladies Pro-Am, so I am going to take a day or two break now and then begin preparing for that,” said Myeki. “So my focus is now on the Sunshine Ladies Tour and when this ends I would like to go to Europe to play on the Ladies European Tour at the end of the year, so that is what I am hoping to do over the season. “After the Sunshine Tour I will be playing in some IPT's and the Vodacom Origins to prepare for the end of the year.” rossr@dispatch.co.za