Skipper Veli Mothwa will need to keep Orlando Pirates’ talented goalscoring quartet at bay if Chippa United are to break their winless run against Soweto giants Orlando Pirates in the Absa Premiership at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday (6pm). The Chilli Boys have not beaten Pirates in six consecutive league matches, and to make matters even more testing, the Bucs have not lost in six matches, with five wins and one draw. This success comes after German coach Josef Zinnbauer took over, and the good run has seen the Sea Robbers climb up to fourth spot on the log. However, goalkeeper Mothwa is determined that come Saturday, the Chilli Boys will deliver Zinnbauer his first defeat in the league. “We will work towards getting a win against Pirates,” the goalkeeper said. “The players are ready mentally for the game. We have been working more on our finishing during training, because in the past couple of games we have been lacking in that department. “We miss goals and create chances, but we don’t score.” In order to get one over Pirates, shot-stopper Mothwa will need to be at his very best between the sticks against the likes of Vicent Pule, Gabadinho Mhango, Luvuyo Memela and Thembikhosi Lorch. “Most of the time that is what we are working on getting, a clean sheet. If we do not score, we don’t let our opponents score as well. “A clean sheet will give me a positive boost going into our next match.” Saturday game will also form part of Chippa’s 10th-year celebrations, but Mothwa said the players will be handling the fixture  like any other match in the Absa Premiership. “It’s a normal day for us players, but yes, for the team it’s a big day as we are celebrating 10 years. “But each and every game that we play is important. So our Saturday game is like any other game in the league. We need to get three points in order to further distance ourselves from the relegation zone and climb up into the top eight spot.” The Chilli Boys are on the back of  a 3-0 defeat to SuperSport United. Coach Norman Mapeza’s troops have not won a game in three matches. They opened the new year with a 2-0 loss to Polokwane City, but quickly bounced back to beat Black Leopards 2-1. The victory was then followed by two consecutive draws against Maritzburg United and Bloemfontein Celtic. Chippa’s inconsistency has resulted in the club dropping two places on the log. They are now  in 12th position, with 22 points from 20 matches. They are only five points clear of relegation candidates AmaZulu, and a victory over Pirates will do the Chilli Boys the world of good.