The Eastern Cape government hopes to begin implementing its ambitious plan to turn the remote Magwa and Majola tea estates near Lusikisiki into a sophisticated eco-tourism destination as soon as next year. Given the history of the beleaguered state-owned tea estates and adjacent collapsed dairy project, the plan to turn it into a “Dubai-like” eco-tourism destination — replete with a glass bridge over the magnificent Magwa falls — might be considered by about to be unrealistic, but rural development and agrarian reform MEC Nomakhosazana Meth is determined to breathe life into it. While the so-called “master plan” still seems woefully short on detail, Meth’s spokesperson Ayongezwa Lungisa said in response to questions that it was  “well advanced and nearing finalisation” with a mid-March deadline. The bare bones of the plan were unveiled by the MEC in January. She said the futuristic Magwa-Majola Tea Estate would see diversification of crops — including avocado, hemp and macadamia nuts — and include a majestic glass bridge spanning the Magwa Falls, an elevator to take tourists up and down the gorge, an 18-hole golf course, amphitheatre, cultural village, conference centre and a five-star multistorey hotel with an infinity pool. Elaborating this week, Lungisa said the government would be the facilitator and driver of the Magwa-Majola agri & eco-tourism initiative, which would include numerous stakeholders including local communities, landowners, and district, local and traditional leadership. He said profiling and consultation with the investor community had yet to be completed. The African Development Bank had expressed interest in supporting the initiative, along with “our development finance institutions”. While the private sector investors were also key to the development, he warned they had to be mindful of the fact that the local community was a “key stakeholder and equity partner” in the development. Lungisa was adamant the preparation had been “considered and not rushed” and that the plan would be technically robust. He said the department had resumed control of the state-owned tea estates after they were released from business rescue last year. It cost the Eastern Cape government more than R100m to pull the two tea estates back from the brink of collapse during its three years in business rescue. Apart from diversifying into other crops, the plan included resuscitating the collapsed Lambasi Dairy — another multimillion-rand government project which went to rack and ruin in 2011. The government would, again, provide key enabling infrastructure and hoped a range of entrepreneurs would do the rest. The Magwa Falls Eco Tourism Park would involve many stakeholders and entrepreneurs operating enterprises ranging from professional chalets owned by families to “establishments that require bigger investors and deep pockets”, Lungisa said. The master plan would be in place by mid-March and implementation in a gradual and phased way would take place from 2021. Costing of the plan had not yet been completed, he said.