School water polo action is kicking into high gear this week as the annual Selborne College Vides Tournament takes centre stage at Selborne College and Primary from Friday morning. Twenty top school teams from across the country will be battling it out for glory over three exciting days that will conclude with the final on Sunday morning. Defending champions St Andrew's College will face stiff opposition this year, with Cape Town powerhouses Reddam Constantian and Bishops, as well as Paul Roos, St Albans and the two Grey's, College and High, all set to be in the running over the event. Hosts Selborne have had a tough time this year and they will hope to use home conditions and being roared on by a partisan crowd will help inspire them to a big performance in the tournament. “Everything has been going well, we are using the Selborne Primary pool for the first time which is going to be fantastic, we have teams from Cape Town, Johannesburg, Durban and a strong Eastern Cape flavour so everything is looking good,” tournament organiser Mike Cousins said. “I think there are about six teams who can take the title this year, so it should be very exciting. “Selborne has quite a young side this year, so it will be a tough test for the guys but I am hoping they can make it to the last four and then anything can happen, but a lot will depend on our pool match against Paul Roos which will give us a good idea where we stand.” The action will be split over four pools, with pool A and D to be played at Selborne College and pools B and C at Selborne Primary, while all main play-off games will be played at the College. Play starts at 7am on Friday with the last match scheduled to start at 7.40pm, while Saturday play will begin at 8am and the last game at 5.45pm. Sunday's final will end the tournament, starting at 11am. Teams: Selborne 1sts and Collegians (2nd), St Albans, Crawford Lonehill, Kingswood, Reddam (Constantia), Glenwoodhouse, St Charles, Michaelhouse, Paul Roos, Alex Road, Bishops, Pearson, Northwood, St Andrew's College, Glenwood, Grey College (Bloemfontein), Stirling, Reddamhouse (HLD), Grey High (PE) rossr@dispatch.co.za