Three Butterworth traffic officers have been arrested by the police for allegedly hijacking a truck before robbing the driver and his crew of an undisclosed amount of cash on the N2 between Dutywa and Mthatha on Friday. One of the traffic officers was rushed to Mthatha General Hospital after he was shot in the upper body and wounded during an exchange of gunfire with the police. A fourth suspect, who is believed to be a self employed member of the public, was also arrested on the scene, said provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Thembinkosi Kinana. Kinana said three suspects have been detained at Bityi police station while the wounded is under police guard in hospital. He said all suspects are expected in court soon on charges if hijacking, attempted murder, armed robbery and pointing of firearm. “The arrested suspects remain in custody as part of the investigation,” said Kinana. Mnquma local municipality has condemned the incident and vowed to launch an internal disciplinary action against the officers. Mnquma municipal spokesperson Loyiso Mpalantshane said the municipal manager Silumko Mahlasela was “highly perturbed by such reports of criminality in the part of our traffic officers.” Mpalantshane said: “ He [Mahlasela] is fuming and very angry, to the extent that he has ordered that disciplinary proceedings that will lead to the dismissal of the perpetrators be instituted immediately, even in absentia. It is the first time that he has encountered such unbecoming conduct in his 12 years as an accounting officer in local government.” Mpalantshane added: “We condemn these criminal acts in the harshest terms and with the contempt it deserves.” He said the officers do not represent their value systems and the municipality's steadfast commitment to serving the people of Mnquma with integrity and honesty. He urged the law to take its full course and vowed to assist the authorities in every aspect of their investigations. “Mnquma is on a mission to improve its image and anyone who stands in our way will be dealt with appropriately. Internally we will also institute our disciplinary actions to root out all the rotten apples within the institution,” said Mpalantshane. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za