The Eastern Cape’s fight against the coronavirus is showing signs of stabilising,  with 44,317 people from  63,181 confirmed cases having recovered from the virus by Sunday. While we are fighting the virus to save the lives of our people, we are also moving with speed to address administrative, resource and clinical challenges faced by our hospitals and  provincial health system. These challenges were reported by the people of our province and  exposed by workers at our hospitals through their unions. I took a decision to address service delivery, administrative, infrastructure facility and clinical problems in some of our hospitals and in the provincial health department   to improve the health intervention of our response to Covid-19. In line with the intergovernmental relations framework, I requested a support team of experts from the minister of health, Dr Zweli Mkhize, to assist the provincial health department  with strategies and the implementation of guidelines to effectively respond to the pandemic. The support team was led by Dr Sibongile Zungu, and included Prof Ian Sanne, Theo Lighthelm, Albert Jansen, Dr Dorman Chimhamhiwa and Wendy Ovens. They  assessed the department’s systems, administrative processes and clinical response capabilities to the coronavirus at some hospitals in the Nelson Mandela Bay and Buffalo City metros. They submitted a report with recommendations to address identified challenges. In the report of the assessment  conducted from June 29  to  July 10, the support team found that, while the metros had mobilised reasonable infrastructure to meet the surge,  service delivery requirements such as  adequate provision of oxygen, equipment, human resources and medicines needed attention. Procurement delays were also hampering the surge in capacity commitments, they found. They recommended we address inadequate co-ordination between tertiary, regional and district hospitals through  the revised command and control structure. Problems at  Dora Nginza,  which was being overwhelmed by  patient demand, as well as lack of infrastructure, equipment and HR to meet  clinical care demand, also had to be addressed. The support team also found  labour relations was an overwhelming issue  requiring a dedicated action plan; and that historic arrangements for drainage areas, resource allocation and referral routing were not addressing the significant surge in patient numbers, particularly in  vulnerable populations. The support team said  Emergency Medical Services and patient transport services required intervention to ensure continued function; and that all oxygen separation plants were located in the Nelson Mandela Bay area, putting distribution of oxygen to hospitals far from the  Bay  at risk of lead times being too long for replenishment. Having accepted the report, I instructed that a project management unit (PMU) — with  authority to fast-track actions and decisions to address  the findings  of the support team, issues being raised by communities to government through customer care platforms, complaints from workers and matters reported by the media — be established at the health department. The PMU is tasked with strengthening  scientific-based interventions to reduce the transmission  of Covid-19 person-to-person, maintain  low levels of community transmission and   protect the functioning of the province’s health system. I appointed Dr Sibongile Zungu to head the PMU. She  will  lead the rapid response team  focusing on the operational needs of the regional co-ordination to suppress and contain the spread of Covid-19, and strengthen  PMU support for the operational clinical support units for all districts and subdistricts for Covid-19 response. She will work closely with  tracking, tracing and testing teams, and hospital support teams, and directly with regional co-ordinators, to ensure   interventions are strengthened. She will provide technical and clinical support for case management of hospitalised patients including the availability of oxygen, clinical protocols for patient management and rational use of ICU beds. I also appointed Dr Monde Tom, a  turnaround specialist, to streamline  a  shared service of finance, HR, supply chain, infrastructure and information system. Tom will design and drive an integrated, organisation-wide intelligence and information system that supports  decision-making, resource allocation, operational efficiency, effective interventions and impact of health systems to improve the health status of  our province’ people. The third member of the PMU is  Laurence Van Zuydam, an   HR management specialist   employed as the head of transversal HR  management in  the premier’s office. Van Zuydam  will  redesign the organisational structure, functions and critical process of the department to create a central governance structure for rapid decision making, and reorganise  teams into work streams. The pandemic has exposed  glaring historical and systematic challenges the  health department  has  experienced  since  amalgamation of two former homeland health departments and the former republic health system into a single provincial health system. The assessment helped us  get to the root cause of the problems. Calls for implementation of a Section 100 are misplaced because we continue supporting infected people to recover and improving  health-care provision in many areas. Through the PMU we will  transform the department to improve its efficiency and effectiveness in delivering services. Oscar Mabuyane is the premier of the Eastern Cape.