Villagers in Ngqeleni near Mthatha have accused their chief of illegally selling pockets of land in the area. Chief Zoyisile Ntapane is under fire from Lujecweni villagers, who now want his brother to replace him. Last month they marched to his home to hand over a petition demanding answers on a number of issues, including the alleged illegal sale of their land. The petition, which the Dispatch has seen, accuses Ntapane of taking unilateral decisions about the land without involving the community. The villagers have questions on how Glowen Square near Corhana village was acquired. Glowen Square is a piece of land that has been transformed into a thriving business area that includes a butchery. The land is owned by suspended OR Tambo district municipal manager Owen Hlazo. “We want to know where does the money for community development, which are rentals and proceeds and all other payments supposed to benefit the community, go to? Who are they paid to,” the petition demands. The revenue reportedly includes proceeds from a local quarry and rentals for telecommunication network poles on their land. “We are also aware that there are sites that have been sold, some to our community members," the petition reads. They also want feedback on a land claim in an area called Nkululekweni, and have demanded that Ntapane provide them with 10 years' worth of bank statements from the royal trust account. This is where money for community development in Lujecweni is kept. Ntapane could not be reached for comment at the time of writing. His phone went unanswered and he did not respond to  voice messages. Nomachunu Hlazo, speaking on behalf of the villagers,  said they wanted Ntapane to step down as  chief and his younger brother, Andile Ntapane, to take over the reins. She said the Lujecweni community had taken a decision in 1969 to take a wife for their late chief, Mhlabunzima Ntapane. The decision signified that the community wanted the new wife to birth an heir for the community. Andile was born out of that marriage and was therefore the rightful ruler of Lujecweni, Hlazo said. “The community believes Andile was deprived of his right to become the chief and to lead the community because he was 16 years old when Zoyisile took over,” she said. Andile said he was ready to lead. “If the people say they want me to lead  I cannot say no,” he said. Ntapane responded to the villagers in writing on July 8, a document seen by the Dispatch. He told them land in Lujecweni was being illegally invaded,  including Nkululekweni, which was under control of King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality. He said he  had personal issues that needed his urgent attention, but promised to respond to the petition in its entirety once the problems he was dealing with had subsided.