An organic intellectual, a humble servant of the people, a unifier, a strategic thinker, a well-rounded and selfless activist, and a rare breed of a leader. This is how late Buffalo City Metro speaker Alfred Mtsi, who died on Sunday morning from Covid-19 complications, has been described. ANC provincial spokesperson Gift Ngqondi described Mtsi as a true servant of the people who dedicated most of his adult life to fighting social injustice. “With his incisive mind, sharp wit and easy humour, comrade Mtsi's passing leaves a huge void in the ANC and in Buffalo City Metro council. Comrade Mtsi was  was one of a few who were involved in all the facets and pillars of our alliance and the national democratic revolution. “He lived a remarkable life, one that inspired different generations with his uprightness, humility, love, dedication to serving people, and his willingness to share his  experience and mentor younger leaders and teach them accountable leadership. “He was a man of high professionalism and discipline who never asked for more than he was prepared to contribute,” he said. Premier Oscar Mabuyane  said  Mtsi's death was a blow to  the whole province. Dr WB Rubusana ANC regional secretary Antonio Carels described Mtsi as a beacon of hope in the region's politics. “We will always treasure the memory of comrades like him and never forget the debt we owe him and his family. He sacrificed time with his family for the ANC and for the people of BCM at large. “We have lost a comrade, a father to many of us, a loyal cadre of the ANC and a friend. During difficult times in our region, he would carry us all on his shoulders,” Carels said. SACP Skenjana Roji district secretary Siyabonga Mdodi said Mtsi had served with humility, commitment and loyalty. “He was an outstanding servant of the organised labour movement, and represented it well in governance. “He will always be remembered for his unparalleled respect for organisational processes and decisions, at times even carrying organisational decisions to his personal cost. “His respect for the organisation and the people was demonstrated by his non-factional service in the most factionalised environment he was deployed in. In his memory, we will intensify our fight against corruption and poor service delivery,” Mdodi said. Co-operative governance & traditional affairs MEC Xolile Nqatha and legislature speaker Helen Sauls-August spoke highly of the former ANC MPL. The DA and EFF in BCM sent condolences to the Mtsi family. The DA said Mtsi's “calm and peaceful leadership was a "great loss” and the EFF described Mtsi as a “humble” and “non-partisan speaker” who displayed maturity.