Two children have died from Covid-19 since Friday. The latest statistics, released by the national department of health on Monday night, revealed that the 10th South African child to die from the virus was aged between 10 and 19. According to the statistics, three children under the age of three and seven under the age of 19 have died from Covid-19 since the pandemic hit the country. More than 3,000 children have been infected. Dr Lesley Bamford, chief director of child, youth and school health at the national department of health, said children generally have a much milder disease than adults, and it is likely that a higher proportion of infections in children are asymptomatic when compared with infections in adults. “We do not fully understand why almost all children have only mild disease. Most adults also have mild disease, but approximately 15% of adults with symptoms will develop more severe disease. Older adults and those with comorbidities, such as diabetes and heart disease, are at higher risk of developing severe disease.” Bamford said it was initially thought children would play a huge role in transmitting Covid-19. “Recent studies suggest children seldom infect adults and other children. It seems most children and adults are infected by other adults. However, it is important to remember there is still a lot we do not understand about the disease.” Prof Haroon Saloojee, of the University of the Witwatersrand’s paediatrics and child health department, said of the children’s deaths he knew, all had underlying diseases. “In SA, the department of health reported eight deaths on June 24, three in children [aged nine and under] and five in [those] aged 10 to 19. I am aware of  four deaths in children who tested Covid-positive. Three were children with serious underlying conditions, such as blood cancer, a severe heart problem and multiple metabolic pathologies. “None of these deaths was likely to be primarily the result of Covid-19. Further, one newborn who died also tested positive, but likely died of a neonatal condition.” In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.