Social networks have hardly covered themselves in glory since the Covid-19 pandemic took hold. When the virus hit SA and other parts of the world they became fertile ground for fearmongering and sinister misinformation campaigns. The networks have hid behind the stock argument that they are not the ones spreading untruths. Months into the pandemic, not much has changed. A new survey has found that almost a third of people in the UK either definitely would not be vaccinated or were unsure about subscribing to treatment were a Covid-19 vaccine to become available. The survey was carried out at the end of June by YouGov, a British market research and data analytics firm, on behalf of the non-profit Centre for Countering Digital Hate (CCDH). There has been a huge uptick in anti-vaccine sentiment on social media in the past year. CCDH chief executive Imran Ahmed told the UK’s Guardian: “Our hope for a return to normal life rests with scientists developing a successful vaccine for coronavirus. But social media companies’ irresponsible decision to continue to publish anti-vaccine propaganda means a vaccine may not be effective in containing the virus. The price for their greed is a cost paid in lives.” Yet as much as social media is curtailing the efforts of scientists and health authorities, it could also prove to be a handy weapon in the fight against the coronavirus. While still very much in its infancy, a team of international researchers have come up with a model that uses social media and search engines to predict Covid-19 outbreaks before they occur, sometimes three weeks ahead of time. A non-peer reviewed paper published last week on arXiv.org, an open access research portal, suggests that most metrics for tracking the virus, including confirmed cases, hospitalisations and deaths, suffer from reporting delays, as well as “uncertainties stemming from inefficiencies in the data collection, collation and dissemination processes”. Existing forecasting models are helpful, but the accuracy of their predictions is limited by the “timeliness” of data or parameter updates. What the researchers have noticed in the past decade, however, is that when an illness or disease is imminent in an area, people are far more inclined to turn to search engines, news reports, crowdsourced participatory disease surveillance systems, electronic health records, Twitter and Wikipedia to find out more. Accordingly, the scientists, who included representatives from Harvard University, Stanford University and the University of Salzburg, propose that digital data sources may provide earlier indication of epidemic spread than traditional Covid-19 metrics like confirmed cases or deaths. They focused on six sources — Google Trends; Covid-19 activity on Twitter; Covid-19-related clinician searches on UpToDate; GLEAM, a state-of-the-art metapopulation mechanistic model; aggregated human mobility data from smartphones; and Kinsa Smart Thermometer measurement. The benefit is that the information is captured in real time, as opposed to the delayed data sets driving existing prediction models. The team’s research focused on several US states during March and April this year. In New York state, for example, they found that Twitter activity around Covid-19 spiked before cases rose sharply in March. This was closely followed by “uptrends” in GLEAM-modelled infections, Google searches for “fever” and Covid-19-related searches by clinicians. “We observed that the median lags between deaths and either fever incidences or Google searches for ‘fever’ were respectively 22 days and 21 days, broadly consistent with previous estimates that the average delay between the onset of symptoms and death is 20 days,” the scientists said. “We found that Covid-19-related activity on Twitter showed significant growth two to three weeks before such growth occurred in confirmed cases and three to four weeks before such growth occurred in reported deaths.” The researchers do not believe their working model to be any kind of silver bullet, but they do think it could be effective in identifying future Covid-19 hotspots. “Analysis of web data could give a more nuanced understanding of public reaction, such as estimating changes in the public emotional response to epidemics.” 