There is a new editor at the helm of the Daily Dispatch. Deputy editor Cheri-Ann James takes over from Chiara Carter, who now becomes editor-in-chief of the  Dispatch and the Herald and Weekend Post titles in Port Elizabeth. Dispatch general manager Ryan Megaw also becomes general manager of these Arena Holdings-owned Eastern Cape titles as well as the company’s community newspapers. James, 37, has been with the newspaper for 13 years. “I never envisioned myself being anything other than a journalist, but my news editors saw potential in me and over the years I have been fortunate to have the support of amazing colleagues,” James said of her appointment. “Being appointed the editor is a huge honour and one that comes with big responsibilities, not only towards our readers and stakeholders but towards my colleagues. These are uncertain times for everyone and the media industry has not been immune to the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.” She said she was determined to ensure that, regardless of these challenges, “we produce a product that is true to our brand and most importantly, stay true to the people of the Eastern Cape”. Carter joined the paper as deputy editor in July 2018. She previously served as editor of the Cape Town-based Weekend Argus, part of the Independent group. Prior to her editorship, she was a senior political writer for the Independent group, covering parliament extensively. On her new role, Carter said: “I am excited to be entrusted with providing strategic direction for such iconic titles. I hope to focus on consolidating our recent astronomical growth in digital audience, reinvigorating the weekend papers and mentoring the many talented, younger editorial staff employed by Arena in this province.” Megaw said he was honoured to be given the opportunity to lead Arena Holdings operations in the Eastern Cape. “While advertising revenue has been under pressure for some time, and  this has been put under even more pressure by the current pandemic, our print readership has been remarkably buoyant throughout lockdown, and the continued remarkable growth of our digital audience means there has never been as large and loyal an audience for our news as there is today,” Megaw said. “We firmly believe that the future of our business lies in reader-driven revenue, and so we will continue to invest in delivering the quality news that our readers need.” Rochelle de Kock  will continue to act as editor of the Herald and Weekend Post. Shelley le Roux will take over the sales manager reins for the Herald and Weekend Post.