Education experts and union representatives in the Eastern Cape  agree with the SA Democratic Teachers Union's call  to close all schools. Sadtu's national executive committee (NEC) held a meeting on Tuesday to see how education could be tackled going forward. The union said schools should remain closed until the end of the Covid-19 peak. In his last address to the nation on Sunday, President Cyril Ramaphosa said according to current projections provinces would reach the peak of infections at different times, somewhere between the end of July and late September. Sadtu general secretary Mugwena Maluleke said the union's call was in response to the growing number of coronavirus infections at schools. “Transmission of the virus is increasing. As the Sadtu NEC we are saying that schools must remain closed until the end of the Covid-19 peak.” “Grade 12 learners should continue with schooling and their academic programme should be synchronised with that of higher education,” Mugwena said. He said the union had called for a meeting with basic education minister Angie Motshekga. Maluleke said Sadtu was not suggesting that schools close with immediate effect, but  the union would engage and consult on the matter with the basic education ministry. Speaking to DispatchLIVE on Tuesday, education expert Mary Metcalfe said she was in agreement with Sadtu's call. “I agree that, particularly in areas where the epidemic is peaking, it makes sense to close schools as part of the community response.” “The Covid-19 peak is geographically located and I think that [school closure] would be sensible by geography,” Metcalfe said. Eastern Cape  education department spokesperson Loyiso Pulumani did not answer the DispatchLIVE's calls on Tuesday afternoon. The Public Servants Association (PSA) in the Eastern Cape said it was “glad” Sadtu had made the call. The association represents thousands of educators and administrative staff at schools across the country The PSA's Thami Makuzeni said: “We welcome that other unions have decided to join the PSA in its demand of closing the schools. This has been the theme of the PSA since the government decided to open schools during the national lockdown. “We have said and continue to say that the opening of schools during the winter season was not a good idea, it was a suicidal move by the department. The infection rate  is on the rise, pupils and teachers are infected daily. Teachers are dying from the virus. Enough is enough.” She described sending children back to school as  “premeditated murder, something which should have been avoided from the word go”. “The department seems to be reactive and not proactive. They need to take cognisance of the severity of the situation,” Makuzeni said. Sadtu  said there had not been efficient teaching or learning since the phased-in reopening of schools, citing low attendance figures. “The rate of community transmissions are impacting on schooling,” said Maluleke. “We as an organisation cannot continue to send messages of condolences to families.” He said  suspension of classes during the pandemic peak would afford the department of education more time to implement alternative measures to allow for teaching and learning to take place. “The situation is dire and affects everyone in the community,  not only schools, because schools are a microcosm of the society.”