As the government began the payment of “topped-up” child grants on Wednesday, recipients braved long, winding queues  to collect grants and  buy groceries after some had to survive on food parcels. The SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) was expected to pay seven million beneficiaries who would receive an extra R300 in May (amounting in total to R740), and an extra R500 a month from June to October, as per the new government multibillion-rand Covid-19 fund. The grant, which is normally paid on the first of every month, meant beneficiaries needed to wait longer than usual to plan around their monthly budget. Thabile Vuso was among those who received their payouts at the Pimville post office in Soweto. The mother of two said she was grateful to have received her  money after the long wait and uncertainties  following technical glitches for other Sassa beneficiaries at various pay points on Monday. Vuso said she joined the queue as early as 6am. “I was worried thinking what I would do if it didn’t come out, because we have run out of almost everything,” she said. The past five weeks had been difficult for her because she had been retrenched two months before the start of the lockdown. “I was in the process of looking for a job, then the lockdown came. My children and I had nothing. “If it was not for the food parcels, I would have been forced to go back home,” she said. While Mavuso and scores of others had the option of making withdrawals at any ATM, they said they could not sacrifice their cash  for bank charges. Zandile Mnyamana expressed relief at the topped-up grant. “It’s going to help me a lot.” Unlike others, Mnyamana gets financial help from her partner. With the grant increased, she said she looked at the possibility of saving at least R200 towards her child’s education. “The grant has never been enough but we have been surviving. I want to try and save because it’s not like I’m used to getting this much.” Beneficiaries used the opportunity to buy groceries in bulk, which resulted in a shortage of trolleys  for other customers. Canned food, maize meal, eggs, chicken portions and nappies were  among the most common items bought. Another beneficiary, identified only as Itumeleng, left an ATM disappointed.  She said she had received her payout    in full but was not  happy because “it’s going to my landlord”. — Times Select In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.