Apologies are a sign of virtue. It takes a lot of courage for anyone, especially for those who hold the levers of power, to accept that they have made mistakes and seek to make amends. It is in this light that we listened with a sigh of relief when President Cyril Ramaphosa admitted on Wednesday that some lockdown regulations have been contradictory and some have been poorly explained. We certainly welcomed it when he said: "Where we have disappointed, we will continue to make amends. Where we make mistakes, we will continue to correct them." As we fight the Covid-19 pandemic, we all agree we are in uncharted waters and this is not easy. However, while we welcome the apology we must point out that there are certain transgressions that have nothing to do with Covid-19.  Time management is one of them. In that regard, Mr President, you and your cabinet have not covered yourselves in glory. We have waited in dismay as your press conferences are delayed, at times by  over an hour. Admittedly, at times delays are due to consultations, but then the question is why the president sets up if he is not ready.  In any case many people want to know why the press conferences are drifting to so late in the night. We begin to wonder what happened to the Ramaphosa who, in 2018 at the ANC's 106th birthday celebrations  in East London, stressed that his party wanted to spread a new culture of “being on time”.  He told the gathering: “As you can see, this year we started on time. It’s a clear signal that things are changing." When did the wheels come off? It is our hope that punctuality will once again be an ethos that Ramaphosa embodies. Ambiguities and contradictions in lockdown regulations must be ironed out as a matter of urgency lest sidetrackers seize the moment and derail us from fighting Covid-19. Those rogue security officers who abuse their powers during their routine patrols must be reprimanded. Tough action must be taken against councillors who are using food parcels and vouchers for political gains. Fellow citizens, the battle against Covid-19 is far from over. Let us introspect. Those who are in the habit of defying regulations for the sake of it need to stop and think again. These regulations are not the state's punitive measures to control our freedoms. They are meant to save your life and those of all around you. Let us continue to do our best to flatten the Covid-19 curve.