It is no surprise that tempers are fraying. It’s been six weeks of official lockdown and the reality of what we are going through is sinking in. We need to be kinder to ourselves. It was never going to be easy. The worst thing we can do now is to turn on each other and destroy our unity, fragile democracy and our country. Humanity has never gone through this. Disappointment, anger, frustration – all these will be part of the journey we have to travel to get through this horrific time. The mood is low.  On social media all sorts of dire scenarios are painted about where we are and where we are headed. Just last week we were being congratulated by the World Health Organisation and featured in international media as a great example of how to handle Covid-19. This week we are calling co-operative governance minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma names and branding President Cyril Ramaphosa weak. It’s understandable that the mood is so low. Families have run out of money. Thousands are taking pay cuts or earning no money whatsoever. Hunger is at the door. Times are hard when National Treasury says their worst-case scenario shows seven million people losing their jobs. That is a catastrophe. The mood can return to positivity. Here are seven steps that would help government keep the nation on its side. Now we are at the mercy of police minister Bheki Cele (who threatened at the weekend that cabinet would discuss taking us back to level 5). We have no idea how long this will last except to be told that it may depend on the level of infections and the readiness of the health sector to cope with the coronavirus cases. We need hard numbers, not vague statements. When will the health sector be ready and what is the meaning of “ready” – let's have number of beds, personnel and progress reports on how we are getting there. Health minister Zweli Mkhize has been phenomenal in releasing statistics on Covid-19 cases. He can keep doing this, too. Mkhize and all ministers should by now have charts and a widely-distributed Powerpoint presentation showing the government’s real-time modelling for moving down to level 3 or back up to level 5. Be open, be clear – the country will follow you. Right now there is no certainty or clarity except for threats by Cele that if we go running we will be banned again. It’s not helpful for the government and it’s not helpful to the citizenry. Humanity is in trouble. The government needs to lead with certainty in getting us through this terrible time.