A bridge connecting three villages in eMaXesibeni has slowly been eroding since last year and now residents fear for their lives every time they have to cross it. The structure has been dubbed the “bridge of death” by locals, who said it was disheartening to see it crumble less than 10 years after construction. Residents in Cabazana location in the Umzimvubu local municipality, who reported the failing bridge structure in April, are waiting anxiously for the municipality to send engineers to reconstruct the bridge, which has been crumbling slowly since 2019. The bridge services two other neighbouring villages, Mnambithi and Sidakeni, and provides access to the N2. “The bridge erodes every time we get heavy rains and we are all concerned about this. We’ve reported the matter to the municipality but there’s nothing being done about it,” said Cabazana resident and former Bush Bucks player Thabiso Msongelwa, who personally reported the matter to the local authority in April. “Our communities use this bridge to access other areas. When we buy food we have to cross that bridge and it’s been months since it started to crumble. We’ve been hoping that someone would be sent here to fix it because we are in real danger. ” Another concerned resident, pensioner Madzanibe Motseki, said she had to cross the bridge regularly to collect medication  from the clinic  at Danti location. “We really don’t know what to do now because we can see a disaster is waiting to happen. “This bridge is gone, it’s crumbling from both sides, and if a truck crosses it can go down instantly. We are asking for help from the government to please save our children this from disaster,” said Motseki. When the Daily Dispatch contacted Umzimvubu municipal spokesperson Nokhanyo Zembe, she asked for time to get answers from their infrastructure department. “This is the first time I’m hearing about this but I’m noting it down as we speak. I will call the relevant departments, and our infrastructure department, and hear from them whether they were aware of this or not. “If they did get such a complaint, what are they doing about it? I will also call on the the ward councillor, then I will get back to you,” said Zembe. However,  she could not be reached again and her cellphone went straight to voicemail. Umzimvubu Local Municipality spokesperson, Nokhanyo Zembe conceded the bridge was crumbling, but she said it could only be fixed in June. “The bridge approaches have started washing away and reported by the councillor to the project manager who had instructed the contractor at the Zinkawini AR Maintenance to backfill and compact with gravel material,” said Zembe. “The contractor will attend to the matter in June when he is busy with other earthworks on the road. “The road including bridge is scheduled for maintenance on the 24/25 financial year as per the IDP [Integrated Development Planning] that will include the reconstruction of the approaches and installation of gabions,” said Zembe.