President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Wednesday that South Africans had to fundamentally change behaviour to help prevent the spread of Covid-19. "This new phase will require each of us to change our own behaviour in profound ways. There needs to be a fundamental shift in our thinking and our way of life. We need to take personal responsibility for our own health and the health of others. "Let us remember that although the lockdown has slowed the rate of infection, the virus is still very much present and will continue to be present among us for a long time to come," he said. If South Africans could do this, he said, it would "minimise the opportunities for the virus to spread". "It is our actions now, individually and together, that will determine whether the great sacrifices that people have made over the last two months will ultimately save the lives of thousands, and spare the country from the huge devastation that this pandemic can cause," he said. President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Wednesday that government was "preparing for a further easing of the lockdown". Speaking during a national address, Ramaphosa said this would also allow a "gradual easing" of the economy. This means that, come the end of May, the country would be on level 3 of the nationwide lockdown. However, he warned that some parts of the country with high infections would remain on level 4. "We will make further announcements in this regard. After the completion of the consultations we will have in the coming days, we will also be announcing certain changes to level 4 regulations to expand current business activities," he said. Ramaphosa added that there would also be easing of exercise restrictions under the amended level 4 restrictions. President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Wednesday that there were 219 people in SA who had died from Covid-19. There were also 12,074 cases of the virus. This was an increase of 724 cases and 13 deaths. President Cyril Ramaphosa on Wednesday night thanked South Africans for the "sacrifices" during the nearly seven weeks of lockdown. He said that the lockdown was neceesary, and that we are "dealing with human lives". "This coronavirus is taking a heavy toll not only on the health of or people, but also our people's abilities to earn a living, feed themselves and their families, to learn and to develop - but also to enjoy many of the basic freedoms that we take for granted," he said. At 8.35pm on Wednesday, South Africans were waiting eagerly for President Cyril Ramaphosa to begin his address on the the status of the country's fight against the coronavirus and the nationwide lockdown. President Cyril Ramaphosa has cancelled his visit to the Western Cape on Friday after premier Alan Winde was forced to place himself in Covid-19 quarantine. Winde said he had a one-on-one interview last Thursday with eNCA cameraman Lungile Tom, whose death from Covid-19 was announced on Wednesday. "Because [I was] in close range for some time, I am deemed a close contact and will now self-quarantine," said Winde.