Empilweni TB Hospital staff downed tools for a second consecutive day on Thursday in an effort to air their frustration over the New Brighton facility being converted into a Covid-19 isolation site. The grievances  include TB patients being transferred to other hospitals without consultation and  the slow pace of testing nurses. Speaking on behalf of the nurses, Nehawu regional chair Godwell Pokolo  said the agreement was that the department of health would use a vacant portion of the hospital  for isolation and quarantine wards. “That area can admit up to 20 patients, there are 20 beds there,” Pokolo said. “We normally used it as a waiting area for some our TB patients who needed temporary isolation from other patients. “We said [it could be used] if there were any TB patients who tested positive for Covid-19 and for outside cases that were mild or low-risk.” He said  it now appeared that the entire hospital would be used for Covid-19 treatment as TB patients had been  moved to the Osmord and Jose Pearson TB hospitals. Denosa regional secretary Vuyo Nondlawu said another question that had not been answered was whether  the current hospital staff  would also be sent to those hospitals. “We have also often highlighted the issue of public transport for staff, so there’s also the question of how they will get to these hospitals to treat their TB patients.” He said they were sending a memorandum to the department soon  to  have the matter discussed properly. Some of the issues outlined in the memorandum are: “Our concern is also the community which has not been informed that patients have been moved from here, and that means people within this community will also be inconvenienced and have to make  alternative arrangements to see their relatives,” Nondlawu said. He said  he was also not happy about the slow rate at which nurses were being tested, and these delays put staff at risk  of infecting each other. Department of health spokesperson Siyanda Manana  had failed to comment  by the time of going to print.  