Northern Ireland’s public walls have long been known for their towering murals glorifying gunmen of the paramilitary groups that fought for decades over British rule. But alongside flaking depictions of “The Troubles”, new technicolour tributes have been painted — to the frontline workers battling the coronavirus pandemic. Artists across the sectarian divide between unionists in favour of continued British rule, and republicans wanting a united Ireland, have turned their focus to doctors and nurses. With more than 400 Covid-19 deaths in Northern Ireland, communities have been brought together against a common enemy. “We already are having these ritualistic moments when we’re coming out and we’re clapping in support of NHS [National Health Service] workers,” Queen’s University Belfast anthropology lecturer Dominic Bryan said. “But that of course has also very quickly appeared on murals right across Northern Ireland.” In a republican area of north Belfast, one hand-painted mural thanks frontline workers with a rainbow and depicts medical staff as superheroes. Nearby is another image from a different crisis: a gunman taking aim. Over 30 years before a 1998 peace deal, Northern Ireland was rocked by bombs and bullets, as republican Catholic paramilitaries fought their loyalist Protestant counterparts. More than 3,500 were killed — from both sides and the British security services. “In the 1980s and 1990s we really saw murals take off as a way of reflecting the politics and the conflict in the city,” Bryan said of Belfast. “Belfast as a city is a divided city,” explained Bryan. “The murals can be used both to give that political community a sense of cohesion, but also to mark space. “People going into that community or into that area can feel a sense of threat.” Since 1998, Northern Ireland’s paintings reflect peace and sporting triumphs. Meanwhile, July 12 marches and bonfires — both traditional high points celebrating unionist culture —  have been cancelled for 2020. In Portadown, a stack of wooden pallets instead spells out a tribute to NHS workers. “Some people talked about putting Union flags on it,” a member of the local loyalist bonfire committee told Irish state broadcaster RTE. “We decided against that as Catholics and Protestants work for the NHS and we didn’t want to make it political.” But “there is another narrative however that you see about, and that links the NHS very much with Britishness and also has a link to the military”, Bryan said. “ . . . there is no doubt this narrative as it plays out will become more complex and I think will become more divisive.”