Workers’ Day came about as a result of the historical struggles of employees  across the globe who resisted exploitation by the employers and declared a  day to highlight the injustices  endured at work. SA is not an exception to these struggles and  May 1 was officially recognised and observed as a public holiday after the 1994 election. The history of trade unions in SA  dates back as far as 1880   and they  have played a pivotal role pre and post-apartheid. Our constitution recognises and protects unions in SA. Section 17  guarantees the freedom of peaceful assembly and to demonstrate, to picket and to present petitions. Beyond that  “everyone has a right to fair labour practices and to engage in collective bargaining” as enshrined in section 23 of our constitution. These rights translate into the various pieces of legislation that have led to the formation of institutions such as Nedlac, the Labour Court, and theCCMA. The world is  plagued by a myriad of  challenges, with  the deadly Covid-19 decimating not only lives but economies as well. The downgrading of our status to junk has also worsened the economic situation, which had been limping even before the virus due to  rampant corruption and mismanagement.  Under these circumstances  union membership will continue to shrink. Cosatu is part of the tripartite alliance which makes it hard for it to extricate itself from the politics of the ruling ANC. The labour federation has been complicit   in protecting those who have clearly mismanaged  and bankrupted  the state.  \ The fallout which resulted in the emergence  SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) can be traced back to the intricacies of aligning with some of the ruling party actions. The breakup has weakened  the solidarity of the employees. It is my submission that  the disadvantages of being in a tripartite alliance  far outweigh the benefits  for workers. Unions that are still following old and traditional strategies  embedded in politics of patronage and populism are losing the plot. During the  Zuma administration the   actual workers’ issues were pushed to the sidelines and that nearly brought Cosatu to the brink of  irrelevance.   The essence of trade unionism, as Philip Randolph puts it, is social upliftment for the downtrodden and the poor. This ideal was thrown out of the window by Cosatu in the last decade. For example, the union promised to fight tooth and nail against outsourcing and that never happened.  The struggles of the employees have now shifted. To avoid irrelevance in the contemporary situation,  unions must offer various innovative benefits that are essential to  their members and  non-members alike, including to the employer in ensuring sustainability of the business and economy. For instance, they can volunteer their services on behalf of their employer to the local communities as part of social responsibility. They can foster apolitical discussion forums to improve operations among the workforce, rather than always fighting for wage increases. In the modern world, challenges  facing employees are not homogeneous.  For the unions to remain  relevant  in the “new normal”, they have to adapt new processes and strategies that fit in with the agenda of the 4IR. They do not have only to ensure that there is social justice in the workplace, but have to contribute to the social re-engineering of our economy and the calibration of their members. Unions must  prepare their members for the 4IR.  A disturbing phenomenon recently has been the competition among various unions. If workers are to win their battles, unions must build synergies  rather than being  adversaries. Right now SA Express  and  SAA employees are facing a real threat of job losses and yet various labour organisations are  talking  past each other without a common position.  Without solidarity among the unions, jobs will be lost and unions themselves will vanish. The 4IR is  towering over us without giving us any chance to think. The world is changing; we are in a digital era. Many people are losing jobs in an unprecedented way. The Covid-19 virus disproportionately affects the poor and the gap between the poor and the rich has increased staggeringly. People are now working from home, work processes are changing into the virtual arena and the question is are the unions ready to innovate and be relevant in the new normal or are they stuck in the irrelevant past? Advocate Vuyo Booysen is a senior lecturer at the University of Fort Hare and social justice activist. He writes in his personal capacity.