Mercedes-Benz SA  has joined the fight against  Covid-19 by making breathing aids and 3D printed recyclable plastic face shields. The shields are needed for mass screening and in clinics and hospitals. The face shields and supply continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) breathing aid devices will be made at the East London manufacturing plant. The plant reopened under level 4 restrictions on May 4 and is now using its capacity to manufacture the face shields and CPAP devices, which deliver oxygen to the lungs without needing a ventilator. The  breathing aid devices have been used extensively in hospitals in countries hardest hit by Covid-19 to assist patients with serious respiratory problems to breathe more easily, when oxygen via a face mask alone has proven insufficient. Reports from Italy indicate that about 50% of patients given CPAP have avoided the need for invasive mechanical ventilation. MBSA CEO and  manufacturing director Andreas Engling, said: “As a symbol of solidarity with the Eastern Cape provincial government and its people, MBSA saw the need to use 70 years of manufacturing excellence to produce medical equipment  in the form of 3D printed face shields. The CPAP devices  will assist coronavirus patients by keeping them out of intensive care with breathing support.” During the non-production period of the lockdown, MBSA explored the feasibility of developing the CPAP devices for manufacture. With this decision, MBSA is following the example of the Mercedes-AMG Petronas Formula One Team based in the UK by preparing its machines, which under normal circumstances would produce automobile components, to develop the breathing aids. Once approved, MBSA anticipates  it will be able to manufacture more than 1,000 face shields and CPAP devices a month. “The dimensions and complexities of the Covid-19 pandemic require every member of society to pool  resources and capabilities to inhibit further contagion. We are constantly monitoring the situation related to Covid-19 and will take further action as required in order to safeguard the health and safety of the people of the Eastern Cape during this challenging time,” Engling said. The face shields and CPAP breathing aid devices will be donated to the provincial health department once regulatory approval has been received from local medical licencing authorities, said corporate affairs manager Thato Mntambo.