The OR Tambo district, one the Eastern Cape's Covid-19 hotspot areas,   received a much-needed boost at the weekend when a local church donated 1,400 face masks to 16 villages in Port St Johns, including Majola, where there have been a high number of cases. By Sunday, the district had seen five deaths and 132 cases. Most people in villages around the town are elderly and unemployed. According to Reverend Mfundi Mjali of the Thombo Methodist Church of Southern Africa, whose members   contributed about R8,000 from their own pockets to buy the three-ply masks, there was a great need for the personal protective equipment. Mjali said when the virus struck, it caught people off guard. Those dependent on doing odd jobs could no longer work. “People are  frustrated because they cannot work. With this initiative, we are doing something so that  people in this town can protect themselves as required,” he said. “Many people here have no masks and have no means to buy them they are not working,” said Mjali, who personally donated R3,000. Wearing face masks in public is compulsory. Co-operative governance & traditional affairs minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma made the announcement prior to the country going into level 4 of the lockdown on May 1. “We are preparing to help those less fortunate with food parcels and clothes as much as we can. Because we are in this period of anxiety, we also bought radio slots to motivate, bring hope and educate people about this virus. We are responding to the call to help all people, not just members of the church,” he said. Mjali said the masks were made by local and aspirant seamstresses in a bid to bolster skills development among the district's unemployed. In manufacturing and distributing the masks, Mjali said, all the stipulated regulations, including those governing hygiene, were adhered to. “We did this because when the virus hit we were all shocked, and now we are trying to find ways we can help. We have to keep safety at the back of our minds while also ensuring there is no stigmatisation,” he said. “This an ongoing project to assist those who are unable to help themselves. We want to urge all those who can to assist in fighting this virus in our area.” OR Tambo district municipal spokesperson Zimkhita Macingwane said the district welcomed the donation. “The government urges people to work together to fight the virus,” she said. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.