Covid-19 is not just a respiratory illness. It attacks the heart and kidneys, too. Even the brain. It can transform the blood with fatal clots, like flour causing lumpy gravy. No one really knows why. So doctors seeking to treat the sick cast about online and call colleagues in other hospitals, even other countries, to hear tips and experience which might help them save a patient. In some places ventilators are now being joined by dialysis machines as vital bits of kit in huge demand. By the time this is over, it will not just be machines that help you breathe that symbolise Covid-19, but machines that purify the blood, drugs that thin the blood, infusions that boost your immune response and drugs that tamp that immune response down. This, in other words, is no simple disease, no single straightforward condition that needs to be assessed and then defeated. Rather, once it gets a grip, it can become a cascading series of conditions which spread from organ to organ, outrunning doctors and treatments until death arrives. The spectrum of possible reactions to infection is thus immense, from those who are almost completely asymptomatic to those whose bodies are destroyed from within – who end up with brain inflammation or die of strokes. Once rooted, Covid-19 can put our systems under astonishing, multifarious stress. The very idea of a cure, then, seems incredible. A cure for what? For the blood clots? For the heart damage? The cytokine storm whipped up by the immune response? The symptoms of diabetes in patients who have never before suffered from the condition? This is not one disease but many, like the serial killer who slips from one disguise to another, taunting those in pursuit by hovering in plain sight, yet ever elusive. No wonder the principal drugs on which hopes are now pinned seem most to help those whose infection has not got too firm a grip. Take remdesivir, which is causing great excitement: a recent study suggests it helps patients recover faster (though as a note of caution, another before that showed little effect). But the death rate for those who took it was almost the same as those who didn’t, hinting that once Covid-19 is too dug in, the drug offered little help. Similarly, great hopes are pinned on Avigan, the brand name for the antiviral drug favipiravir, produced by Fujifilm Toyama Chemical. Dozens of countries have asked Japan for stocks after a Chinese study suggested it helped, but once again, mostly for those with mild symptoms. These are sketchy, shadowy conclusions. A great deal more research needs to be, and is being, done. But they demonstrate the importance of listening to England’s chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, when he insists that Britain and, by extension, the world, is “nowhere near the end” of this pandemic. Vaccines are many months away and may well not be a silver bullet when they arrive. Treatments are extremely complex for a chimera condition which attacks in many ways. We need to be realistic. We need to stop thinking about this as a fight in which we must keep dancing, trying to avoid as many blows as possible until we can land a single, great knockout punch of our own. Rather, we need to start thinking about this as a bout of many rounds in which we try to fight back with ever greater power. At first, our punches will be rather feeble and, possibly like remdesivir or favipiravir, only weaken our opponent slightly. But as time goes on, and we become more and more effective with our jabs and our uppercuts, Covid-19 will slow up, beginning itself to feel the pain, and looking less and less threatening. While we should never rule out the marvellous possibility of a dramatic KO, this is likely to be a fight decided on points, with both adversaries left standing many years from now, but with one victor. Us. This was the point made by Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and Whitty’s equivalent medical briefing superstar in the US. As he presented the results of the encouraging remdesivir trial, he harked back to the early days of HIV, in the mid-1980s. “We were struggling for drugs for HIV and we had nothing,” he said. “And there were a lot of anecdotal reports about things that may work or may not. People were taking different kinds of drugs.” Then they had a first trial of AZT and, like remdesivir, the effect was small, but encouraging. The point was that it was a start. A chink in a previously impervious disease. “Building on that every year after,” said Fauci, “we did better and better.” Almost four decades later, HIV is still with us. But it is not the death sentence it once was. So as humanity confronts a new, deadly virus, we can continue to dream of a miracle knockout. But let’s prepare ourselves economically, medically and mentally for a more attritional confrontation. – Telegraph Media Group Limited (2020) In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.