The national lockdown has transformed our society through redefining human interaction, reshaping our everyday existence and realigning social institutions. While the effects of the lockdown on public health, economic and political systems have been widely debated, there has been a dearth of public intellectual engagement of how the Covid-19 pandemic is leading to social ruptures and ructions. We all have families, in one way, shape or form. So let us begin by dissecting how the family institution, that is the most basic structure of our social organisation and socialisation, has been affected by the lockdown. For many who don’t work in essential services or those sectors that have reopened under level 4 of the lockdown, adherence to the lockdown guidelines largely means confinement at home either with family, relatives, a partner or alone. This has resulted in numerous heartwarming, sometimes hilarious, positive human life stories. Some marriages have been reinvigorated and singleton love relationships blossomed as partners spend unlimited time in each other’s lovely company. However, not everything is rosy behind those closed doors. There are gut-wrenching  incidents of gender-based violence that continue to  scourge  SA  society. Further, many other individuals are under social distress and face various psychosocial challenges directly emanating from isolation at home. Within the extended family institution, our associational freedoms have also changed. Traditional ceremonies have been cancelled or postponed, as have  weddings, birthdays and graduation parties. While the postponements  may seem a minor inconvenience in the pandemic prism,  these familial gatherings  define our rites of passage, celebrate our lives and express our social harmony. Our freedom of movement and association has also been limited by the lockdown. The genesis of this is the  World Health Organisation-recommended social or physical distancing, which is essentially maintaining prescribed space between people outside the home environment. This physical distance between people in public spaces is a scientifically proven method for reducing the probability of exposure to infection, slowing and sometimes preventing the spread of the highly contagious Covid-19 virus. Due to its scientific effectiveness, the national government has been aggressive in promoting its implementation across the country. Socially, it has caused necessary but sometimes controversial changes. For example, religious organisations have had to abandon traditional mass congregations. Many people of faith who used to congregate to worship now do so from home either as families, alone or through online platforms. Religious observances such as Easter adapted to social distancing guidelines, with the likes of Pope Francis delivering Easter Mass in a near-empty St Peter’s Basilica square. The same happened in cathedrals and mosques across SA. While this adaptation has ensured continuity of religious routines, one wonders whether the religious devotions of many will be sustainable in the long term as brethren gradually lose the concept of the Sunday church service as traditionally defined and practised. Relatedly, there is also emerging genuine concern among religious leaders like pastors, bishops and church elders who are pondering the financial effect of this new virtual church on their operational recurrent expenditure. Not all congregants will be persuaded to contribute monetary offerings outside the confines of the physical church, with its associated pressures and expectations. The form and functions of technology-based social networks have also not escaped Covid-19 influences. While the evolution of technology has generally enhanced our means of communication, its benefits have become clearer under lockdown. The versatility of communication apps like Zoom, Skype, Microsoft Teams and our “old buddy” WhatsApp have allowed many virtual social engagements to proceed without the need for physical gatherings. In a way, it took this pandemic for these technological advances of the Fourth Industrial Revolution to find full expression and utilisation in our everyday social interactions. However, poverty and inequality, especially among the urban and rural poor, means they have not enjoyed the benefits of virtual social connectivity. This digital divide, a product of historical circumstances and current human development omissions, is an issue that requires urgent intervention and resolution in the “new economy” post lockdown. As South African society adapts under level 4 of the lockdown, it seems highly unlikely that our social norms and habits will return to the normal we previously knew any time soon. Instead, a more pragmatic mindset is to see the present as the new normal for the foreseeable future. This new sober reality is about staying home, social distancing in public spaces, and owning and wearing the new life accessory in town, the mask. Prof Philani Moyo is director at  Fort Hare Institute of Social and Economic Research. He writes in his personal capacity.