A Zimbabwean opposition MP and two activists, allegedly abducted from an anti-hunger rally and tortured by security services last week, could be charged for joining the unauthorised protest, a senior minister suggested. The three women, Joanne Mamombe, 27, an MP for the opposition MDC Alliance, and Netsai Marova and Cecilia Chimbiri, two of the party’s youth leaders, disappeared from the spontaneous food-poverty rally in Harare last Wednesday, prompting the MDC Alliance to issue statements of concern about their whereabouts. They were admitted to hospital two days later, where they remain, saying they had been arrested, beaten and sexually abused. Kazembe Kazembe, the home affairs minister, released a statement on Sunday saying the police would hold a full-scale investigation into the incident. However, he added that the demonstration was “illegal”. “It violated the lockdown regulations. There was no social distancing. No stone will be left unturned with a view to finding out exactly what happened. This inquiry will also include the way the story was covered in the media,” he said. Doctors attending to the women said they are still too traumatised to answer police questions. But in a video filmed in hospital by political colleagues, Mamombe alleges that the three were taken to Harare Central Police Station before being driven to a small town about 80km west of the capital. She said they were shoved in a pit and tortured. Sobbing and shaking in her hospital bed, Mamombe said they were ordered to march and sing, were beaten and she was forced to drink one of the other women’s urine. The MDC MP said she was also made to eat faeces. Chimbiri, also shaking and weeping, said from her hospital bed that the “state agent was suckling my breasts” and shoved a gun “up my anal passage”. Nick Mangwana, a spokesperson for the state, said the alleged ordeal was “a diversionary tactic”. He added: “It’s a poorly choreographed attempt to throw a curved ball at the system.” Dr Norman Matara, a private GP in Harare and a member of the Zimbabwe Association for Doctors for Human Rights, said the women have been examined and two of them cannot yet walk unaided. The women, who are in a private hospital, are being guarded by the police and visited by their families twice a day, he said. — Telegraph Media Group Limited (2020)