The South African Revenue Service (Sars) has denied that it was to blame for the death of its Eastern Cape employee who succumbed to Covid-19. This comes after the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) this week accused Sars of negligence following the passing of Mthatha-based Fikile Maqungwana. Maqungwana's duties at Sars, according to Nehawu, included Covid-19 screening and supply of disinfectants to taxpayers and employees, "without proper training on Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Standards". On Saturday, Sars spokesperson Siphithi Sibeko told DispatchLIVE that Nehawu's statement was "completely untrue and insensitive". "The local leadership of the affected region has informed us that the deceased  took ill with and reported a headache on 14 May 2020. He requested, and was allowed to  go consult with the doctor," Sibeko said. "His manager further informs us that on 15 May 2020 the deceased was contacted, and informed him that he was not feeling better, and on  16 May 2020 he went back to see the doctor as his condition was not improving. On 18 May 2020, he was admitted to hospital and sadly passed away on 20 May 2020. "We are at pains to lay down this chronology of events because this does not square up with the generalised, unwarranted and slanderous remarks made by Nehawu against Sars." He said Sars’ key concern was the welfare and safety of its employees. Sibeko maintained that personal protective gear (PPE) was available. "Since the outbreak of Covid-19, all Sars offices have been thoroughly cleaned, and employees supplied with personal protection equipment, thermometers for temperature checks, with strict screening, sanitisation and necessary public health and occupational safety measures.  Screening takes place at every entrance to our buildings and hand sanitisers are freely available," said Sibeko, adding that measures were taken to ensure the safety of staff and taxpayers while strictly adhering to Covid-19 regulations. Sibeko said Sars commissioner Edward Kieswetter was working closely with all trade unions including Nehawu. Kieswetter, according to Sibeko, has established a direct line of communication with the national leadership of the unions. "Where there are concerns, they have direct access to him, and if there were issues that warrant his intervention, he has always been available to listen and where appropriate respond. This behavior is therefore not only untrue, but unfortunate and uncalled for," Sibeko added. In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.