Busisiwe Memela, CEO of the embattled South African Social Security Agency, in an interview published in the Sunday Times at the weekend admitted she'd had “sleepless nights” worrying about the ability of the agency’s payment system to operate at capacity. She was right to be concerned. Millions of beneficiaries are visiting paypoints across the country this week to draw grants. To ease the burden on poor South Africans negatively affected by the lockdown, President Cyril Ramaphosa two weeks ago announced an increase in grants over the next six months. He also introduced a R350 a month grant for unemployed citizens, to be accessed over six months too. Sassa, which has previously come under fire for its inability to control crowds amid the pandemic, announced a split in payments to facilitate social distancing. Old age and disability grant recipients would be paid on Monday and Tuesday and child grants on Wednesday. However, thousands of beneficiaries were turned away without a cent on Monday in some parts while some reportedly received more than what was due to them. The problems were due to “glitches” in the system. Sassa spokesperson Kgomoco Diseko was quoted as saying staff were under pressure to split the payment files. He also said because preparations were under way during the lockdown, most offices were not operational and a number of employees were not working. It beggars belief that the agency would not have applied an “all hands on deck” approach to ensure it was better prepared. While the glitch reportedly did not affect the Eastern Cape, the province was not without its problems. In East London, residents hoping to meet with Sassa officials to resolve issues with grants were met with closed doors on Monday. A delay in supplying personal protective equipment (PPE) to staff resulted in them being unable to assist the public. This meant that people, some who had queued as early as 4am, were sent away without being helped. Managing payments to millions of beneficiaries is no easy feat. But when your sole responsibility is providing grants to the poorest of the poor, it is expected of the agency to fulfil that task effectively. By turning desperate beneficiaries away empty-handed, be it a few dozen or hundreds, and forcing elderly people to stand in long queues for hours, Sassa is failing in its responsibility to the most vulnerable of society.