Vladimir  Lenin, who led the Russian revolution  in 1917,  said: “There are decades where nothing happens; and there are weeks where decades happen.” Lenin could have hardly imagined that his words describing the Bolshevik revolution 103 years ago could be applied to the current Covid-19 crisis bedevilling the world.  Yet, if one deﬁnes a revolution as a turnaround and a signiﬁcant change that usually occurs in a short period of time, there is little doubt we are experiencing a revolutionary epoch in every aspect of our lives. We no longer shake hands, the political system is no longer working normally, the economy has been disrupted, our social lives have changed drastically and we are confined to work and study from our homes. Since January 30, when the WHO  declared the Covid-19 outbreak a global emergency, the disease has spread across all continents and infected over 4.2 million people with 280,000 succumbing to the virus.  Many countries have declared disasters, emergencies and lockdowns in an effort to contain the spread. While Covid-19 infection and death rates  continue to rise, there is hope that we will overcome it. We can draw inspiration from  Chinua Achebe's classic novel  Things Fall Apart where, after a difficult period, the main character Okonkwo, reckons: "Since I survived that year, I shall survive anything." With similar  courage and resilience indeed we shall survive the Covid-19 pandemic. Recoveries of over 1.5 million people to date show that ultimately the silent killer will be defeated. The human species is resilient and has survived  pandemics and wars  in the past. In 2002 the SARS virus broke out in China and spread across 29 countries with a fatality rate of 9.6% but humans defeated it. Every year an estimated 290,000 to 650,000 people die globally of influenza-related complications. Malaria, HIV, Ebola, cancer and TB claim millions of lives but human beings find ways to handle and treat them. The fatality rate of Covid-19 is estimated at 3%  but there is hope that a solution will be found.    Surely epidemiologists, virologists and all other  scientists should be emboldened  by our past victories to work hard until a vaccine for Covid-19 is discovered. However, we cannot deny that  Covid-19 has entrenched poverty, and starvation, and has  laid bare our existing inequalities. The world is  facing an inevitable economic recession, our education system has been seriously affected and we can't bury our loved ones with dignity as the scourge ravages our society. Nonetheless, we must advance against the virus. Innovation and adaptation should be encouraged as we look for answers. Because the pandemic has disturbed global production chains, it is crucial that we begin to strengthen local chains to ensure supply, boost manufacturing capacity and inspire economic activity and innovation. Solidarity, co-operation and compassion among  Africans must be encouraged in this time of crisis. Our leadership should resist the temptation to politicise the  pandemic.  Everyone should do their bit and follow government regulations on risk-adjusted strategy. We should also  remember to help less fortunate people during these difficult times.  Individually and collectively, we will win the war against the virus and one day proclaim that  indeed Covid-19 is conquered. Misheck T Mugabe is president of the South African Union of Students.