In February President Cyril Ramaphosa made some very promising pronouncements during his state of the nation address. Not least of these was his commitment to develop South Africa’s digital economy. This was based on the president’s appreciation for the critical importance of the digital economy to our future. “The digital economy will increasingly become a driver of growth and a creator of employment. “The Presidential Commission on the Fourth Industrial Revolution has made far-reaching recommendations that impact on nearly every aspect of the economy and in many areas of our lives,” the president said. The establishment of the Presidential Commission of the Fourth Industrial Revolution on its own goes some way to indicating the intentions of the president. The recognition of the digital economy as a most viable prospect for economic growth and employment is admirable. Not to be overlooked is the president’s recognition of the far-reaching impact of the digital economy and how it touches every aspect of our economy. Done right, digital technology has the capacity to improve and facilitate huge gains in efficiency throughout our economy. Come to think of it, our government will gain from such efficiency as well, possibly transforming it into a smaller, nimbler, more up-to-date government. The president took a lot of criticism when he proposed a new city, something he continued to talk about in his last state of the nation address. Most of his detractors pointed out the gaping chasm between the economic reality of the majority of our people and the “dream” he bravely put forward to the nation. However, what we cannot deny is that the rapid but effective development of our digital economy would answer a lot of the questions raised by unemployment, poverty and non-existent economic growth. If this was true before the Covid-19 pandemic, it is far truer now in the face of a devastated economy, rising unemployment and poverty. Then Ramaphosa said: “An important condition for the success of our digital economy is the availability of high-demand spectrum to expand broadband access and reliability.” This is where things get a bit confusing. The government has not exactly been a champion of facilitating the release of spectrum, in fact it has been a large part of the stumbling block. For the past few years the government has behaved like technology must wait for it to sort itself out. In spite of the high demand for spectrum which would enable the rollout of 5G capability in the country, the government has not been supportive enough to the Independent Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa). In 2016 Icasa invited operators to apply for licences, but the ANC government won a court interdict against Icasa. The reason given for the government’s action was that Icasa had to wait until the government completed its National Integrated ICT Policy White Paper. None of this communicates the same commitment Ramaphosa seemed to exude when addressing this matter of technology and the digital economy. Then last month, in response to the unprecedented need for the capabilities of the digital economy brought about by the national lockdown, Icasa published new rules. In these new rules, operators can now access spectrum for no fee, but only as an emergency measure designed to deal with the upsurge in demand for data services. This emergency window will apparently close again on November 30, three months after the end of lockdown. So, instead of speeding up the issuing of licenses for operators, which would in turn allow operators to provide better data services, the authorities opted for a temporary emergency measure. These developments hardly confirm the president’s commitment to the development of the digital economy. While it is clear that the vast inequalities that define SA society always translate to more benefit for the well-to-do than for the poor, this is something we must make peace with if we want progress. The only thing we need to ensure is that such access is available to the widest section of our populace and harness all development in the digital economy into skills and meaningful economic activity for most South Africans. None of this requires delays in rolling out the technology we hope to employ in our efforts to develop this digital economy. It is the digital economy itself that will answer some of the questions of inequality, poverty and unemployment, especially among the youth.