The massive fraud perpetrated against the state and the people of South Africa  in terms of personal protective equipment and other tenders during the Covid-19 pandemic has been well documented. Under the guise of the state of disaster and the accompanying need for expedited service delivery of PPE and other services, the state relaxed procurement and chain supply management regulations. And the crooks took full advantage. Agents of the state and private business have plundered and looted the fiscus into a hole from which it is unlikely to emerge anytime soon. The worst offenders were reportedly in provincial health, transport and education departments. Given the nature of a pandemic, it was particularly important for the health departments to respond quickly, prudently and appropriately to ensure our hospitals, clinics and emergency services were well stocked and working optimally. But, the Eastern Cape performed so poorly in every respect that national health minister Dr   Zweli Mkhize had to deploy a team to try to slap the department into shape and to get the province ready for the pandemic peak. All of this happened under the stewardship of the current provincial health MEC Sindiswa Gomba. This is the same person who had rejected the Special Investigation Unit’s request to halt an internal probe into some R150m PPE-related corruption so that the SIU could do the job it is mandated to do: find the culprits behind the fraud that characterised supply chain management in her department during the pandemic and the lockdown. The SIU makes a decent argument. After all, what is the point of   those suspected in wrong-doing   investigating themselves? The SIU also says it is concerned that a simultaneous internal investigation running parallel to its own — but without any communication or consultation — will result in its own efforts being, at best, duplicated, and at worst, frustrated. Gomba says that the internal probe will go ahead to nail the suspects.  This will be met with skepticism. After all, she must carry the political accountability for any plunder that happened on her watch in the first place. An infuriated citizenry needs to know what has happened to the billions set aside for Covid-19. That funding could and should have been used to improve and staff our decrepit and collapsed hospitals and clinics. There is no chance that the public will believe the outcome of a departmental investigation into its own corruption. The only way trust can be restored is if the SIU is allowed to do its job unhindered. Both Gomba and premier Oscar Mabuyane should be doing all in their power to facilitate rather than frustrate that investigation.