Deputy minister Buti Manamela  spent the weekend visiting institutions of higher learning in the Eastern Cape. He also visited a high school in Mvezo, Nelson Mandela’s birth place outside Mthatha. Manamela spokesperson Mandla Tshabalala said  the visit was to assess  the state of readiness for the recommencement of academic activities in line with  lockdown alert level 1. Minister Blade Nzimande has already announced a phased reopening of academic activities across the sector in accordance with the relevant alert levels. As a result universities, community education and training centres, and technical vocational education & training (TVET) colleges have already begun to welcome back more students and staff to campuses. Manamela on Friday visited the Lovedale TVET College Zwelitsha campus near King William’s Town and Walter Sisulu Butterworth campus. On Saturday, he visited the Mandela School of Science and Technology at Mvezo, accompanied by  NSFAS administrator Dr Randall Carolissen. Manamela also used the visit to embark on a NSFAS 2021 application campaign. Head of the Mvezo Traditional Council and ANC MP  Mandla Mandela said  the government should ensure young people knew they were cared for, especially those in  rural villages like Mvezo. “Higher education is an important bridge to a better life for our students, their families and society at large. It opens up a world of possibilities through which a rural learner can step into a new world. This new world awaits you as you complete 12 years of formative schooling and enter into the realm of creating a world of new possibilities,” Mandela told the pupils. He told  Grade 12 pupils that they were “extremely fortunate to have made it this far”. “Twelve years ago some 1.2 million learners entered the school system with stars in their eyes and with great dreams and ambitions. Unfortunately only 400,000 on average will complete formal schooling. If you reflect on this, you will come to realise that about 800,000 learners have dropped out, some due to Covid-19 and others  forced by circumstances to seek work. Others are just languishing at home wasting away their lives,” he said. He thanked Manamela for ensuring that the pupils from Mvezo and the surrounding areas were able to access bursaries through NSFAS. Mandela urged the pupils to reach for university and excel at their studies so that they could fight poverty, inequality and  rural underdevelopment. “Carry the name of the Mandela School of Science and Technology high. Let us build on the 85% pass rate and make that 100%,”  Mandela said. DispatchLIVE