Eastern Cape education department is investigating  a school principal allegedly linked to a sex scandal and a scholar transport operator who it claimed was caught on camera drinking with pupils. The department on Tuesday  confirmed that the officials were “facing serious allegations of misconduct involving learners during school hours”. One incident occurred in Mount Fletcher, where the school principal is under investigation for allegedly sexual misconduct. The department learnt about the matter on Sunday through social media where citizens and learners reported it. “This morning, a team consisting of labour relations officers and members of management and governance have been dispatched to investigate the matter and submit a preliminary report. The report will recommend steps to be followed based on the evidence gathered,” said provincial education department spokesperson Loyiso Pulumani. In the second incident, a Moshesh Agricultural High School scholar transport operator was suspended after a viral video clip showed him drinking and allowing a pupil to drive a school bus full of learners. Pulumani said the department learnt of the matter through social media and the operator has since been served with a suspension letter while alternative measures were being implemented to ensure pupils were not left stranded. “The two, although facing different charges and from different schools, are now under investigation after reports by concerned citizens about their misconducts,” he added. Provincial education MEC Fundile Gade said both incidents showed carelessness and disregard for the rule of law. “These incidents should never happen again as they violate the right of the learners. Lives of all learners who were travelling in the bus were put in danger and such cannot be allowed to happen ever again,” he said. “In addition, the Educator's Act states that should an educator be found guilty of sexual misconduct with a learner, that is punishable with a dismissal. So, we will apply the rule of law to both cases guided by the labour relations act and the educator's act.” DispatchLIVE