President Donald Trump, who played down the threat of the coronavirus pandemic for months, said on Friday that he and his wife Melania had tested positive for Covid-19 and were going into quarantine, upending the race for the White House. Here are some of the reactions, on Twitter unless otherwise stated: “Jill and I send our thoughts to President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump for a swift recovery. We will continue to pray for the health and safety of the president and his family.” “Karen and I send our love and prayers to our dear friends President @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS Melania Trump. We join millions across America praying for their full and swift recovery. God bless you President Trump & our wonderful First Lady Melania.” “Doug and I join Joe Biden and Dr. Biden in wishing President Trump and the First Lady a full and speedy recovery. We’re keeping them and the entire Trump family in our thoughts.” “I am certain that your inherent vitality, good spirits and optimism will help you cope with this dangerous virus.” “This demonstrates that the virus spares no-one, including those who have shown scepticism. I wish him a swift recovery.” “President Trump and the first lady have paid the price for his gamble to play down the Covid-19. The news shows the severity of the US’ pandemic situation. It will impose a negative impact on the image of Trump and the US, and may also negatively affect his re-election.” “The positive test is yet another reminder that the coronavirus continues to spread, even as Trump has tried desperately to suggest it no longer poses a danger. Since it emerged earlier this year, Trump, the White House and his campaign have played down the threat and refused to abide by basic public health guidelines — including those issued by his own administration — such as wearing masks in public and practising social distancing.” “My best wishes to President @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS for a full and speedy recovery.” “My best wishes to @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS. I hope they both have a speedy recovery from Covid-19.” “Wishing @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS a speedy recovery. Covid-19 is a battle we all continue to fight. Everyday. No matter where we live.” “My best wishes to President Trump and the First Lady. Hope they both have a speedy recovery from coronavirus.” “Like millions of Israelis, Sara and I are thinking of President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump and wish our friends a full and speedy recovery.” “I wish a speedy recovery to US. President @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS Melania Trump, who tested positive for Covid-19.” “I sincerely hope that they will overcome the quarantine period without problems and regain their health as soon as possible.” “The president will beat it. The president's beat just about anything that's been thrown at him the last four years. I'll think he'll beat this too.” “All of us want to send our best wishes to President Trump, the first lady and the Trump family and wish them a speedy recovery. “We know what it's like to have, in our case a prime minister who tested positive for Covid, and setting aside politics we all want to see him and his wife get better soon.” Other leaders who sent Trump and his wife their best wishes on Friday included Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. — Reuters