Covid-19's second wave is building rapidly and  already there are concerns that hospitals and clinics in the province may find it difficult to handle caseloads. Buffalo City Metro issued a warning to residents on Wednesday that there had been a rise in fatalities and positive cases. The death toll in the metro now stands at 900, from 699 last week. Although he could not give an exact figure, a nurse at Bhisho Provincial Hospital said there had been a dramatic increase in the number of Covid-19 patients at the hospital. Elsewhere, two nurses at SS Gida Provincial Hospital said there were three cases on Monday “which comes after we've had zero cases for a month”. The escalating numbers in the eastern half of the Eastern Cape are largely due to outbreaks at Fort Hare and Walter Sisulu universities. An SS Gida nurse told the Dispatch that access to personal protective equipment (PPE) remained an issue. “For some time we went without cases, but now they're creeping back slowly. There have been one or two deaths among patients under investigation. We're worried about reusing  PPE in the second wave,” the nurse said. But the situation is nowhere close to the one west of the Fish River. Provincial health  spokesperson Siyanda Manana  said on Wednesday  pandemic figures had risen sharply in Nelson Mandela Bay. “The hotspots are Motherwell, Walmer, Summerstrand, KwaNobuhle, Zwide and Kwazakhele. “Active cases in the Bay  stood at 1,185 two days ago; yesterday (Tuesday) they were at 1,441 and the latest is another 350 have tested positive.” At Livingstone, the province's leading Covid treatment hospital, 23 patients infected with the virus were being treated. “Livingstone has 32 beds set aside for confirmed cases and a further 32 for patients being investigated,” Manana said. At Dora Nginza hospital, the numbers were higher but the situation was under control, he said. “In Livingstone's Covid ward we have 43 Covid-positive patients, 20 of whom are on oxygen. In the patients under investigation ward we have 39 patients with 19 on oxygen, and one has died.” Some, like paramedic and BesMed director Wesley Bester, are worried. “It is very bad. Hospitals are over-full and there are no beds available,” he said. “It is so bad that ambulances transporting patients, even with severe medical conditions, have either been turned away or have waited between two and five hours for hospital staff to attend to their patients.” “This looks bad to the community, but if there are no beds at the hospitals then it is out of our hands. There are huge delays at all the hospitals.” Bester said his staff had been told at different times by both private and state hospitals that they could not admit patients in critical condition, including those with Covid-related symptoms. A nurse at the War Memorial clinic in Alice said they were ready to face the challenges of the second wave. "(But) I wish we still had the tents outside the clinic where we used to screen and test people. All those tents have been removed now and we have been allocated a space inside the hospital, which I think will be a challenge for everyone,” the nurse said. “Those tents were safe, and when this second wave hits  having those tents back  might help us because the clinic is small.” The nurse did expect a shortage in swabs and PPE. “Swabs and PPE can be scarce when we are dealing with a lot of infections, but we can use a person's sputum and send that to the labs for testing. So when there's a shortage in testing equipment we do have other options. The fear of dealing with Covid-19 has kind of passed now, we know how to conduct ourselves.” DA Eastern Cape MPL Jane Cowley agreed with this. “I think we are better prepared than we were before. I think citizens have a responsibility to be more cautious. They are not complying with the laws in public and respecting social distancing,”  Cowley said. “In the province we have many challenges. We are desperately understaffed and we have too few ambulances, but in terms of oxygenated beds and  staff who are used to the challenges of Covid-19 and what is expected of them, they are comfortable in dealing with Covid-19 patients,” she said. DispatchLIVE In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.