Cricket SA’s (CSA) embattled acting president Beresford Williams finally fell on his sword and resigned from his position on Sunday‚ ending a three-month period where he steadfastly held onto his seat despite mounting criticism. Williams is one of four non-independent board members who tendered their resignations ahead of Sunday’s member’s council meeting. The others are Eastern Province’s Donovan May‚ Limpopo Cricket’s John Mogodi‚ Tebogo Siko from the Northerns Cricket Union and Boland’s Angelo Carolissen. CSA released a statement on Sunday afternoon confirming the resignations. “The Members’ Council of Cricket SA (CSA) met on Thursday, 22 October 2020 to discuss various matters including what is in the best interest of cricket, as well as the organisation,” read the statement. “The meeting was an analysis of several scenarios that were put on the table by the board, who met on Wednesday, 21 October 2020 to discuss the best way forward for CSA and cricket. “CSA would like to inform you of the resignations of its acting president, Beresford Williams; Tebogo Siko, President of the Northerns Cricket Union; Angelo Carolissen, President of Boland Cricket Union; John Mogodi, Deputy President of Limpopo Impala Cricket; and Donovan May, President of the Eastern Province Cricket Union. The resignations were handed in at the meeting of the Members’ Council held on Sunday, 25 October 2020,” said Rihan Richards, who was appointed acting president of the members' council, by the council itself. Williams has resigned both from the board and the members’ council while others would remain on the members’ council. “CSA thanks them for their dedication, commitment and service to CSA and wishes them well in their future endeavours’, said Richards. TimesLIVE understands that CSA will inform sports‚ arts and culture minister Nathi Mthethwa that it’s willing to agree to the creation of an interim governance structure. CSA has until Tuesday to give Mthethwa written representations as to why he shouldn’t intervene in their matters. The said structure will be made up of four current independent board members‚ a representative nominated by the minister‚ one by Sascoc and another one by the International Cricket Council (ICC). CSA will also propose that a former national team cricketer of good standing will serve on the board pending approval from the South African Cricketers Association (Saca). Crucially‚ the people who will serve on the interim governance structure would not have been involved in CSA in the last four years. Furthermore‚ they should not have participated in the Fundudzi-led forensic investigation that’s at the heart of CSA’s mess. TimesLIVE also understands that the interim structure will be installed as soon as practically possible after all legal boxes have been ticked and every effort will be made to ensure that it complies with the organisation’s MOI. An insider said that the organisation will make every effort to renew itself for the betterment of the game. “Our position is that the proposal to the minister clearly shows our commitment to co-operate with his office and get cricket out of this dark period that it’s in‚” the insider said. “It is important that going forward‚ we earn the minister’s trust. “We are prepared to ensure that the Nicholson report recommendations are implemented. “It is also important that we look at the MOI with the view of making sure that the CSA board is independent from CSA’s member’s council.” TimesLIVE