An East London woman who described her experiences and recovery from Covid-19 in a daily blog is now launching a website where she hopes to continue inspiring others. Noludwe  Miza’s blog [Intimate moments with Noludwe Mhlola Miza] caught the eye of other people battling the virus because of its sincerity and the ways in which she motivated them. “I started a blog to encourage those who were affected by the pandemic, whether it was losing their jobs or loved ones,” she said. “This came about when I started reading a Facebook page, Covid-19 Support Group, where people shared remedies among themselves. “What kept everyone going during the pandemic was sharing positive thoughts and their victories in conquering the virus. “It dawned on me that we need to have positive thoughts to be able to make it through any day of our lives. We need someone who will speak positive words into our situations, so I started the blog.” The blog is an online ministry that aims to teach, empower and motivate people. It includes blogs and vlogs that assist in helping in the path to self-discovery, giving  readers insights on daily issues affecting them. Miza is a speaker, writer and a facilitator who   already gives motivational talks on community radio station Forte FM. When her family was affected by Covid-19, she found solace in writing motivational pieces to encourage other families affected by the virus. She is also writing her first book,  Uncensored with Noludwe Mhlola- Miza, which will be available to buy from the website once it launches on October 17. “In 2015, I established my first project, Proverbs 31, an organisation that seeks to empower women in all spheres of life. It offers ministry, career, and business guidance and also transfers skills and knowledge to women.” Miza has been working with digital company Digital Muse to build the website and the brand,  together with former TBN presenter Pat Mhloma, who worked in the media  in the early 1990s. “The main purpose of the website is to not only share motivational stories with my readers, but also to help upcoming entrepreneurs who lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” Miza said. “They will be able to advertise their businesses for free. With the number of followers I have, I believe these entrepreneurs would fully benefit from it. Accessing the blog is free and this will also be the case for accessing the website.” DispatchLIVE In the public interest, most of our coronavirus news isn’t behind our paywall, and is free to read. To support our mission of delivering award-winning, independent local news, subscribe from as little as R45 per month by clicking here.