With news headlines as shocking as “Aged care residents dying at three times the normal rate in the UK during pandemic”, there’s a realisation around the world that the conventional model for retirement accommodation has to be reconsidered, despite the increased costs to retirees. Julie Morelle, head of developments at Evergreen Lifestyle, said that there is pressure from two sides to change the retirement accommodation model. While the elderly are largely content, although some are quietly pushing for change, the baby-boomer generation are more strident in their demands for an entirely new model for the homes they live in during their retirement years. They are looking for a community-driven environment and facilities to match their active lifestyles — but with safety as the top priority. Mike Schulze, executive director of East London’s Berea Gardens Retirement Foundation, said “baby-boomer” demands had resulted in a few operational changes. Schulze said what he terms “the country club offerings”, prevalent in the more upmarket retirement villages in the major cities, was not an issue in East London. “We live in a facilities paradise. Our residents have one of SA’s best  golf courses, ranked in the top 10, excellent health-care facilities, superb beaches and open countryside, all within easy access.” Evergreen  had to rethink designs for future retirement villages by increasing space for weekly social activities, separating medical from lifestyle facilities and weaving in forms of technology to keep residents connected to loved ones. “Retirement villages pose  unique challenges, where higher-risk groups interact. Pre-pandemic, the elderly sector was already in a state of flux, adjusting to longer life spans, more active retirements and changing desires for care and community facilities.” In addition, and adding more to costs, baby boomers entering retirement demanded facelifts to the old model of retirement homes.. “The challenge for architects is to relook at the design of retirement villages, dealing with both the immediate crisis and ensuring long-term solutions from the ground up.” The pandemic created massive disruption, forcing Evergreen to rethink and continually improve its way of working. Morrelle said that according to the National Council on Aging in the US, “relationships with friends and family outweigh financial concerns among older Americans seeking fulfilment in their senior years”. Achieving these relationships, said Morrelle, meant that Evergreen will continue to increase indoor and outdoor space for social activities, separate medical care facilities from lifestyle facilities, and the use of technology to maintain connections. Morelle notes that even as lockdown restrictions are decreasing, it’s important to plan for the future especially as the world is now hyper-aware of the possibility of another global pandemic. “While the world was not prepared for a pandemic of the proportions of Covid-19, the lessons learned during this time could provide increased safety and improved design to benefit retirement facilities for the better in the long-term.”